Skip navigation
Books
Browse by Discipline
Architecture
The Arts
Bioethics
Business/ Management/ Innovation
Cognition, Brain, & Behavior
Computer Science and Intelligent Systems
Design and Design Theory
Economics and Finance
Engineering
Environment and Urban Studies
Game Studies
Humanities
Internet Studies/Information/Communication
Linguistics and Language
Mathematics and Physics
MIT and Regional Interest
Neuroscience
New Media and Digital Humanities
Philosophy
Political Science & Public Policy
Science
Science, Technology, and Society
Browse All Disciplines
container
New Titles
Coming Soon
Textbooks
eTextbooks Rental
Catalogs
Series
Authors
Distribution and Services
BITS
Journals
Open
About
Giving
Help
Home Environment and Urban Studies Food Trucks, Cultural Identity, and Social Justice
Buying Options
Hardcover | $90.00 X | £74.95 | 352 pp. | 6 x 9 in | 22 b&w illus. |
August 2017 | ISBN: 9780262036573
Paperback | $30.00 Short | £24.95 | 352 pp. | 6 x 9 in | 22 b&w illus. | August 2017 | ISBN: 9780262534079
eBook | $21.00 Short | August 2017 | ISBN: 9780262341547
Mouseover for Online Attention Data
About MIT Press eBooks
Also by these Authors
Sharing Cities
Cultivating Food Justice
Food Trucks, Cultural Identity, and Social Justice
From Loncheras to Lobsta Love
Edited by Julian Agyeman , Caitlin Matthews and Hannah Sobel
Overview
The food truck on the corner could be a brightly painted old-style lonchera offering tacos or an upscale mobile vendor serving lobster rolls. Customers range from gastro-tourists to construction workers, all eager for food that is delicious, authentic, and relatively inexpensive. Although some cities that host food trucks encourage their proliferation, others throw up regulatory roadblocks. This book examines the food truck phenomenon in North American cities from Los Angeles to Montreal, taking a novel perspective: social justice. It considers the motivating factors behind a city’s promotion or restriction of mobile food vending, and how these motivations might connect to or impede broad goals of social justice.
The contributors investigate the discriminatory implementation of rules, with gentrified hipsters often receiving preferential treatment over traditional immigrants; food trucks as part of community economic development; and food trucks’ role in cultural identity formation. They describe, among other things, mobile food vending in Portland, Oregon, where relaxed permitting encourages street food; the criminalization of food trucks by Los Angeles and New York City health codes; food as cultural currency in Montreal; social and spatial bifurcation of food trucks in Chicago and Durham, North Carolina; and food trucks as a part of Vancouver, Canada’s, self-branding as the “Greenest City.”
Contributors
Julian Agyeman, Sean Basinski, Jennifer Clark, Ana Croegaert, Kathleen Dunn, Renia Ehrenfeucht, Emma French, Matthew Gebhardt, Phoebe Godfrey, Amy Hanser, Robert Lemon, Nina Martin, Caitlin Matthews, Nathan McClintock, Alfonso Morales, Alan Nash, Katherine Alexandra Newman, Lenore Lauri Newman, Alex Novie, Matthew Shapiro, Hannah Sobel, Mark Vallianatos, Ginette Wessel, Edward Whittall, Mackenzie Wood
About the Editors
Julian Agyeman is Professor of Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning at Tufts University. He is the coeditor of Just Sustainabilities: Development in an Unequal World (MIT Press) and other books.
Caitlin Matthews holds a Master of Arts in Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning and a Master of Science in Agriculture, Food, and Environment from Tufts University.
Hannah Sobel holds a Master of Arts in Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning and a Master of Science in Food Policy and Applied Nutrition from Tufts University
US
One Rogers Street
Cambridge MA 02142-1209
UK
Suite 2, 1 Duchess Street
London, W1W 6AN, UK
Contact Us
The MIT Press
About
Bookstore
Catalogs
Events
Internships
Jobs
Location
Newsletter
Staff
Site Help
Accessibility
FAQ
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Services
Current Authors
Prospective Authors
Book Sales
Distribution and Services
Exam and Desk Copies
How to Order
Journals Customer Service
MIT Discounts
Rights
Permissions
MIT Press Digital
Arteca
CogNet
Digital Partners
Idea Commons
MIT Press eBooks
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
New Titles RSS
© 2017 The MIT Press
