Fine Arts Student Alliance
FASA
Latest blog posts
Private loans for continuing education may be the best, here’s why.
Author: admin | Category: Education Loan
Adults who have left formal education usually need loans to help them further their studies. These studies consist of short-time or part-time courses for adults. These are offered in colleges and universities across the country. However, because furthering your education is an investment, sometimes it makes sense to take a loan for continuing education .
 
Funding your studies with a loan for continuing your education
The cost of education is growing day and night, making it difficult for those with a desire to invest in further studies. Unless you have the money upfront, chances are that you’ll seek a loan to pursue further education . And in most cases, the cost of taking these courses is often higher than that of taking undergraduate courses. Also, many adults who choose to further their studies are people who have families to support at home. Factor this with the ever increasing cost of living and you realize that a loan is very necessary. The good thing, however, is that there are different types of financing options that let adults complete their studies regardless of their financial backgrounds. For instance, Federal grants are offered to cover the cost of tuition, that of books and basic expenses. However, the problem with grants is that they are never easy to successfully apply for. There’s a procedure for doing so. But the issue is that since grants are not necessarily loans for continuing education, one doesn’t have to repay them. This means competition among applicants is very high. You’re never sure if you’ll successfully get one.
Applying for student aid
The Federal government runs a student aid program where any student who wishes to further their education can apply. This form (FASA) can be obtained, filled and submitted for free online. However, some higher education institutions may require applicants to submit them in conjunction with other application forms or supporting documents.
Alternative funding for furthering your education
Educational expenses keep growing each day, and Federal aid may not sufficiently cover all the costs involved. In this case, you will have to seek the option of applying for a private student loan for continuing education . These loans are the best, plus they are convenient because lenders process them instantly. In addition to this, they come with flexible borrowing limits with the option of choosing how you want to repay. These features make private education loans the only option for those who really need to finance their further studies without undergoing the hassles that come with applying for grants or student aid. Because limits can be adjusted, it means you’re getting as much as you think will sufficiently cover your educational expenses. Also, because payment plans are very flexible, it means they will fit the budget of everyone regardless of whether or not they have families to feed at home. However, before committing to this type of a loan, it’s expedient that you read the fine print and understand all the terms and conditions that may make it difficult to repay the lender. Some of these loans may have terms and conditions that are hard-to-understand especially if you’re in a hurry to get one. You also need to understand the charges that come with borrowing these loans. Rates vary across different lenders. For this reason, it’s always advisable that you use an online student loan comparison tool to identify loans that will suit your needs. These tools are mostly used to obtain vital information about specific loans being offered online . You will learn about their respective interest rates, repayment terms and conditions for deferring payment. What is more, you can even read reviews about different lenders written by real students. So when you make your final decision, you will know what you’re getting into.
Published: April 2, 2016 | Comments: 0
SHARE YOUR STORY AT THE HUMAN LIBRARY
Author: admin | Category: General
Want to share your story?
A Human Library event will take place on September 17th at the Vanier Library. Organizers are seeking ‘human books’ to tell their stories. The Human Library aims to inform, break stereotypes, eliminate prejudice, and challenge assumptions by giving library users the opportunity to chat with the real person behind the label.
At the Human Library, instead of books there are people. Readers are invited to ‘borrow’ a person (a ‘human book’) and have a conversation. Human books are a diverse group of people who have faced unique life experiences or who, for various reasons, have often faced prejudice or been stereotyped. At the Human Library, the reader has the opportunity to investigate his/her own prejudices by getting to know the people behind the labels.
On the day of the Human Library, readers will meet with human books for half an hour in the library – a safe and welcoming environment – and take the opportunity to listen, ask questions, and share experiences.
The Human Library originated in Denmark in 2000 when a Danish non-governmental youth organization called Stop the Violence held the first Human Library at a summer festival. There were 75 human books available at this event. Human Libraries have been held in over 25 countries.
This Human Library event at the Vanier Library is brought to you by the Concordia Multi-faith Chaplaincy and the Dean of Students Office in collaboration with the Concordia University Libraries.
Published: September 23, 2015 | Comments: 0
FINE ARTS STUDENTS WANT FOR RARE BOOK SHOWCASE
Author: admin | Category: General
The Library is organizing a special Homecoming event to be held at the Loyola Chapel (7141 Sherbrooke St. West, on the Loyola Campus) on Monday, September 19th and are seeking students from Fine Arts to participate.
The Libraries have received a donation of 16 beautiful livres d’artistes that were produced in Montreal from the 1960s to the 1980s. They hope to celebrate this special donation by allowing people to come and see the books in the Loyola Chapel, but instead of putting them in glass cases, they would like to have 6-8 Concordia Fine Arts students each choose one book that appeals to them, and be that book’s guardian for the evening of September 19th, and enter into conversation with guests who come to see the books. No formal presentation needed: simply be there to talk to interested visitors about the book.
The time commitment would be as follows. You would need to come visit the Vanier Library sometime before September to choose “your book”. Then, you would need to save September 19th from around 4-8 pm in your calendar so you could come to the Loyola Chapel, stand or sit with the book, and discuss it with Homecoming guests, other students, and people from the community. The event won’t be 4 hours long, but you would want to come a bit early for setup. Refreshments will be served at the event. It will be a 5 à 7 style event.
Since this is a Homecoming event, it will be promoted and many people will be invited. It will be a great opportunity for the community to simultaneously learn more about the kinds of artwork and studies that Concordia students are involved in.
Just to pique your curiosity, here are the books in the collection. They are all very fine editions with unique bindings and artwork. They were printed in small numbers and sold to art and book collectors.
Published: September 15, 2015 | Comments: 0
SUSTAINABLE CONCORDIA HUB MEETING
Author: admin | Category: General
The Hub is an open-door collective of motivated Concordians who aim to actively support each other, individuals and groups working towards creating a culture of sustainability by :
Enhancing awareness and visibility of sustainability initiatives on campus;
Providing opportunities for gaps and needs for cooperation on campus to be addressed;
Promoting solidarity between, and diversity of sustainability initiatives on campus;
Organizing an event to recognize and celebrate sustainability efforts on campus;
Provide a variety of insights into University affairs relating to sustainability.
There is no obligation to join the Sustainability HUB, however as a coordination and community enhancing tool it can’t be beat. This coalition has been growing over the past years and we hope you will be able to join us this year – again or for the first time.
Published: August 12, 2015 | Comments: 0
CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS || EASTERN BLOC
Author: admin | Category: General
J.E.U.X. is a trans-disciplinary project exploring the concept of games as a theme and/or form: what role do games play in an artistic context? How does the spectator/user interact with them? How does play in art situate itself in relation to playful design and consumer culture? This initiative, presented by Eastern Bloc and Studio 303, will bring together established and emerging professional artists and groups, working in interdisciplinary and inter-media practices, to create a site-specific happening at Eastern Bloc in November 2011.
J.E.U.X. wishes to explore the notions of competition, player-creator relationships, player-player relationships, and whether these relationships are symmetrical, or whether there is an implicit or explicit hierarchy, which could be reconfigured. Games are systems that dictate a set of rules, and what’s critical to consider are the possibilities of experience that emerge from the boundaries of those rules and relationships, from those mechanics and dynamics. J.E.U.X. is an ideal vehicle for the development of experimental and experiential art.
J.E.U.X. will include one week of production time and three open access days (to take place in the gallery and studio spaces at Eastern Bloc) for the selected artists to assemble their works and refine their structure followed by public presentations where the spectator will be invited to interact with the games, view performances and installations, participate in panel discussions and workshops, meet with the artists and participate in the lively atmosphere created by J.E.U.X.
Six to eight projects in the fields of New Media (experimental gaming, interactive installation, electronics & robotics), performance and other interdisciplinary practices will be presented during J.E.U.X. Projects will be chosen that reward creativity, involve teamwork, engage the senses, and inspire critical thinking. Submission guidelines:
Each candidate will have to submit the following documents to the selection committee:
CV and additional documents (artistic statement and/or artist bio, max 250 words)
Project description (max 500 words)
Supporting visual or audio documents (max 10 digital images, jpeg format, and/or 2 video excerpts, Quicktime compatible formats) or a web link (ex: vimeo, youtube, flickr)
Published: July 8, 2015 | Comments: 0
Calendar
November 2017
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Apr
 
 
 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
 
Recent Posts
Private loans for continuing education may be the best, here’s why.
SHARE YOUR STORY AT THE HUMAN LIBRARY
FINE ARTS STUDENTS WANT FOR RARE BOOK SHOWCASE
SUSTAINABLE CONCORDIA HUB MEETING
CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS || EASTERN BLOC
Archives
April 2016
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
Categories
Education Loan
General
