Skip to main content
     
English
Français
 | 
 
Accessibility Tools
Skip to Content
Breadcrumb
 
About | Contact | Events | News
       
     
Search form
Search
   
     
Main menu
Community
Tools
Creation
COHDS Archives
Our community is made   up of over 200 affiliates. Academic and community-based researchers, students, artists, educators, and practitioners specializing in different disciplines: their diverse areas of expertise are impressive.
Ethical guidelines, practical and methodological training, webinars, digital tools, software and links: this section contains a variety of useful tools for anyone wishing to develop an oral history project.
Our affiliates continuously produce a wide variety of research and multimedia projects. Here you will find information on current and past projects, as well as on the many outcomes produced by our community.
Our archives contain thousands of oral history interviews recorded by our affiliated researchers and partners. These documents can be consulted by researchers and the public. We also accept donations of oral history interviews.
Muddying the waters: Thinking through ethics on and off the field
Thursday, November 23, from 12PM to 2PM
With Piyusha Chatterjee
Sharing authority is a key tenet of oral history practice and one of the ways oral historians deal with it is through negotiating consent to record and use the interviews for research and to go public. What is this process of negotiation and how does different socio-political, economic and cultural contexts complicate this process? This workshop will be a reflection on the complexities of aligning institutional ethics requirements with personal ethics and ethics on the field. And it is likely that we will go back from this workshop with more questions on our minds than answers, for muddying the waters – when it comes to ethics – is one step closer to sharing authority.
Click here to register.
Lab Hours
Fall 2017
Monday: closed
Tuesday: 11h - 15h
Wednesday: 16h - 20h 
Thursday: 11h - 15h
Friday: 11h - 15h
 
Latest News
Call for applications: Horizon Postdoctoral Fellowship in Web Mapping/Online Education & Oral History
Horizon Postdoctoral Fellowship at Concordia University
Preparing your oral history content for the Web
Tuesday, November 14, from 6 to 8pm
In this workshop participants will learn and discuss strategies for preparing and showcasing their oral history research for the Web. Together with Antonia Hernández, they will analyze common scenarios and will look at different solutions for organizing and optimizing digital content. They will also explore tools for mapping information and storytelling.
JOB POSTING: Coordinator and Community Facilitator (closed)
Job Offer: Coordinator and Community Facilitator
Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling, Concordia University
Mapping stories and telling stories (with maps): A workshop on narrative cartography and the geoweb
Thursday, November 2, from 12 to 2pm
This practical workshop will present a variety of user-friendly mapping tools to researchers and communicators interested in exploring geographically-oriented media for their work. It will consist of a short lecture (30-45 min), followed by a more practical session for using the tools (45-60 min). Participants are encouraged to bring material that they would like to map (audio, video, text, images).
‘More and more historians understand the value of the arts’
Get to know our Co-Directors, Cynthia Hammond and Kathleen Vaughan , through an interview conducted by Marieke Gruwel and Andy Murdoch at Concordia.
See more news
Call for Proposals - 3rd Emerging Scholars Symposium on Oral, Digital, and Public History
After a year of absence, the Symposium for Emerging Scholars is back! Organized by and for students, this bilingual one-day event offers an opportunity for graduate students to present work at any stage, to exchange ideas, and to connect with other researchers and creators. We invite proposals that feature research projects in oral, digital, or public history, broadly defined - students in related fields, including museum studies, education, documentary filmmaking, memory studies, new media art, sociology, anthropology, and others, are encouraged to submit proposals.The deadline to submit a proposal is January 10th, 2016, and the Symposium will take place on April 1st, 2016.
Call for nominations - Co-directorship of COHDS
The terms of our two co-directors, Steven High an Ronald Rudin, are coming to an end (in 2016 and 2017). Therefore, COHDS is now seeking two new Co-Directors for a 3-year term, starting in May 2016 and May 2017 respectively. Full-time Concordia faculty members, already affiliated with COHDS, are eligible to be nominated for either one of these positions.The deadline for applying is December 17, 2015.
Upcoming Events
Muddying the waters: Thinking through ethics on and off the field
Thursday, November 23, 2017 - 12:00
COHDS 2017 Film Festival
Friday, December 1, 2017 - 17:30
Featured Project
The Lost Stories Project
The Lost Stories Project seeks out little known stories about the Canadian past, transforms them into inexpensive works of public art installed on appropriate sites, and documents the process by way of a series of short films.
Login
Basecamp Login
 
Concordia University
 
About
Contact
Events
News
Community
Tools
Creations
Collections
Concordia University - Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB-1042, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8
Telephone (1) 514-848-2424 ext. 5465
Contact Us | University Mailing Address
Copyright © 2017 Concordia University | Legal Notice
Back to Top
Page Info
Page Title: Welcome to COHDS - Concordia University - Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Page URL: http://storytelling.concordia.ca/
Date Printed: Mon, November 20, 2017
 
Join the Conversation
facebook
twitter
google
youtube
linkedin
pinterest
instagram
flickr
© Concordia University
Terms
Privacy
Accessibility
