Home
About Us
Vision
Governance
Researchers
Themes
Theme I
Theme II
Theme III
Theme IV
Theme V
Partners
Publications
Scientific Papers
Newsletters
Executive Summary
Events
News
Student Area
Links
Contact
SBRN (2005-2010)
Français
English
File Sharing System
Secured File Sharing System
Recent SNEBRN Annual General Meeting
5th SNEBRN AGM
May 2, 2016
McMaster University
Hamilton, Ontario
Upcoming Events
View Full Calendar
No events
SNEBRN Newsletters
July 2017
November 2015
December 2014
December 2013
July 2012
Welcome
SNEBRN is currently the major Canadian research effort in smart net-zero energy buildings. It brings together 29 Canadian researchers from 15 universities to develop the smart net-zero energy homes and commercial buildings of the future. The Network also includes researchers and experts from Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and Hydro-Québec. Industrial partners from the energy and construction sectors are involved in most projects, developing the know-how that will help them compete in the global market.
The budget of the Network over five years (2011 – 2016) is about $7 million, with $5 million from NSERC, and the balance from NRCan and industry and utility partners.  
Vision
The vision of SNEBRN is to perform the research that will facilitate widespread adoption in key regions of Canada, by 2030, of optimized NZEB energy design and operation concepts suited to Canadian climatic conditions and construction practices. We aim to influence long-term national policy on the design of net-zero energy buildings and communities in association with our partners.
Read more
Governance
The NSERC Smart Net-zero Energy Buildings strategic Research Network (SNEBRN), funded for 2011-2016 under the strategic research networks program of NSERC, is based on a previous network: the NSERC Solar Buildings Research Network (SBRN), which completed its program at the end of 2010. Joining 18 researchers from SBRN are 11 new researchers in the new Network’s university team, making a total of 29 researchers from 15 Canadian universities taking part in the effort. In addition there are partners from government and industry.
Read more
Gallery
Latest News
Carleton's Dr. Beausoleil-Morrison appears as a witness on Parliament Hill
IBPSA Fellows & Young Contributor Award
FINAL SNEBRN NEWSLETTER NOW ONLINE!
Canal Savoir - Mur solaire thermique, Université Concordia
4th SNEBRN NEWSLETTER NOW ONLINE!
Positions & Job Openings
Lead Energy Auditor Position with Internat Energy Solutions Canada
Postdoctoral Fellowship - Concordia University
Tenured and Tenure-Track Faculty Position All Ranks / Building Engineering - University of Alberta
PhD Graduate Student Opportunity – Concordia University
Fully-Funded PhD Graduate Student Opportunity - Dalhousie University
Copyright © 2012 NSERC SNEBRN. All Rights Reserved.
Website designed by
.
