NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE »
Sections
Home
Search
Skip to content Skip to navigation View mobile version
The New York Times
Science |Many Academics Are Eager to Publish in Worthless Journals
Search
Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings
Close search
Site Search Navigation
Search NYTimes.com
Clear this text input
Go
https://nyti.ms/2yXfsnN
Loading...
See next articles
See previous articles
Site Navigation
Site Mobile Navigation
Advertisement
Supported by
Science
Many Academics Are Eager to Publish in Worthless Journals
By GINA KOLATA
OCT. 30, 2017
Continue reading the main story Share This Page
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Credit Eduardo Luzzatti
Call it a classic case of supply meeting demand.
Universities, colleges, even community colleges insist that faculty publish scholarly research, and the more papers the better. Academics and the schools they teach at rely on these publications to bolster their reputations, and with an oversupply of Ph.D.’s vying for jobs, careers hang in the balance.
Competition is fierce to get published in leading journals. But what about the overworked professors at less prestigious schools and community colleges, without big grants and state-of-the-art labs? How do they get ahead?
As it turns out, many of their articles are appearing in “journals” that will publish almost anything, for fees that can range into the hundreds of dollars per paper. These publications often are called predatory journals, on the assumption that well-meaning academics are duped into working with them — tricked by flattering emails from the journals inviting them to submit a paper or fooled by a name that sounded like a journal they knew.
But it’s increasingly clear that many academics know exactly what they’re getting into, which explains why these journals have proliferated despite wide criticism . The relationship is less predator and prey, some experts say, than a new and ugly symbiosis.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Many faculty members — especially at schools where the teaching load is heavy and resources few — have become eager participants in what experts call academic fraud that wastes taxpayer money, chips away at scientific credibility, and muddies important research.
Continue reading the main story
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“When hundreds of thousands of publications appear in predatory journals, it stretches credulity to believe all the authors and universities they work for are victims,” Derek Pyne, an economics professor at Thompson Rivers University in British Columbia, wrote in a op-ed published in the Ottawa Citizen, a Canadian newspaper.
The number of such journals has exploded to more than 10,000 in recent years, with nearly as many predatory as legitimate ones. “Predatory publishing is becoming an organized industry,” wrote one group of critics in a paper in Nature.
Many of these journals have names that closely resemble those of established publications, making them easily mistakable. There is the Journal of Economics and Finance, published by Springer, but now also the Journal of Finance and Economics. There is the Journal of Engineering Technology, put out by the American Society for Engineering Education, but now another called the GSTF Journal of Engineering Technology.
Predatory journals have few expenses, since they do not seriously review papers that are submitted and they publish only online. They blast emails to academics, inviting them to publish. And the journals often advertise on their websites that they are indexed by Google Scholar. Often that is correct — but Google Scholar does not vet the journals it indexes.
The journals are giving rise to a wider ecosystem of pseudo science. For the academic who wants to add credentials to a résumé, for instance, publishers also hold meetings where, for a hefty fee, you can be listed as a presenter — whether you actually attend the meeting or not.
One of those meetings, held in New York in June by a group called the World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology , seemed more like a Potemkin village. On the publisher’s website, the convention promised to be large and lavish.
But when I visited, the only venue was a small windowless room on the sixth floor of a hotel undergoing renovation. A handful of people sat in the room, diligently listening to a talk. Most who were listed on the program were not in attendance.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Participating in such dubious enterprises carries few risks. Dr. Pyne, who did a study of his colleagues’ publications, reports that faculty members at his school who got promoted last year had at least four papers in questionable journals. All but one academic in 10 who won a School of Business and Economics award had published papers in these journals. One had 10 such articles.
Academics get rewarded with promotions when they stuff their résumés with articles like these, Dr. Pyne concluded. There are few or no adverse consequences — in fact, the rewards for publishing in predatory journals were greater than for publishing in legitimate ones.
Dr. Pyne does not know what role those studies played in the promotions. But, he said, “I can say that such publications do not seem to hurt promotion prospects.”
Tensions over this kind of scholarship have spilled over Queensborough Community College, part of CUNY, the City University of New York.
Newsletter Sign Up
Continue reading the main story
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
View all New York Times newsletters.
See Sample
Manage Email Preferences
Not you?
Privacy Policy
Opt out or contact us anytime
Although it is hardly known for its research, college administrators urge the faculty to publish. Recently a group of concerned professors complained that nearly a dozen colleagues have repeatedly published in at least one of the dubious journals — and have been promoted and rewarded for it.
Noting that a number of these papers apparently depended on federal and city funds, the professors brought the matter to the attention of the vice chancellor for research and even wrote to the New York State inspector general’s office.
The school referred inquiries to its head librarian, Jeanne Galvin.
“Just as with many colleges, faculty submit their work for publication in a variety of journals based on individual judgment,” she said in an email. “Queensborough offers several advisory resources, such as workshops and individual consultation with expert librarians. The research that I have seen published by our faculty is of the highest quality.”
Some say the academic system bears much of the blame for the rise of predatory journals, demanding publications even from teachers at places without real resources for research and where they may have little time apart from teaching.
At Queensborough, faculty members typically teach nine courses per year. At four-year colleges, faculty may teach four to six courses a year.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Yet “every university requires some level of publication,” said Lawrence DiPaolo, vice president of academic affairs at Neumann University in Aston, Pa.
Recently a group of researchers invented a fake academic: Anna O. Szust. The name in Polish means fraudster. Dr. Szust applied to legitimate and predatory journals asking to be an editor. She supplied a résumé in which her publications and degrees were total fabrications, as were the names of the publishers of the books she said she had contributed to.
The legitimate journals rejected her application immediately. But 48 out of 360 questionable journals made her an editor. Four made her editor in chief. One journal sent her an email saying, “It’s our pleasure to add your name as our editor in chief for the journal with no responsibilities.”
The lead author of the Dr. Szust sting operation, Katarzyna Pisanski, a psychologist at the University of Sussex in England, said the question of what motivates people to publish in such journals “is a touchy subject.”
“If you were tricked by spam email you might not want to admit it, and if you did it wittingly to increase your publication counts you might also not want to admit it,” she said in an email.
The consequences of participating can be more than just a résumé freckled with poor-quality papers and meeting abstracts. Publications become part of the body of scientific literature.
There are indications that some academic institutions are beginning to wise up to the dangers.
Dewayne Fox, an associate professor of fisheries at Delaware State University, sits on a committee at his school that reviews job applicants. One recent applicant, he recalled, listed 50 publications in such journals and is on the editorial boards of some of them.
A few years ago, he said, no one would have noticed. But now he and others on search committees at his university have begun scrutinizing the publications closely to see if the journals are legitimate.
“If something gets published in one of these journals and it’s complete garbage, it can develop a life of its own,” Dr. Fox said.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“Think about human medicine and how much is on the line. When people publish something that is not replicable, it can have health impacts.”
A version of this article appears in print on October 31, 2017, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: In Academia, a Predatory Twist in Publishing. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
Continue reading the main story
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Related Coverage
A Scholarly Sting Operation Shines a Light on ‘Predatory’ Journals
MARCH 22, 2017
For Scientists, an Exploding World of Pseudo-Academia
APRIL 7, 2013
Related Coverage
A Scholarly Sting Operation Shines a Light on ‘Predatory’ Journals
MARCH 22, 2017
For Scientists, an Exploding World of Pseudo-Academia
APRIL 7, 2013
What's Next
Loading...
Go to Home Page »
Site Index The New York Times
Site Index Navigation
News
World
U.S.
Politics
N.Y.
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Sports
Education
Obituaries
Today's Paper
Corrections
Opinion
Today's Opinion
Op-Ed Columnists
Editorials
Op-Ed Contributors
Letters
Sunday Review
Video: Opinion
Arts
Today's Arts
Art & Design
Books
Dance
Movies
Music
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Television
Theater
Video: Arts
Living
Automobiles
Crossword
Food
Education
Fashion & Style
Health
Jobs
Magazine
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Real Estate
T Magazine
Travel
Weddings & Celebrations
Listings & More
Reader Center
Classifieds
Tools & Services
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Multimedia
Photography
Video
NYT Store
Times Journeys
Subscribe
Manage My Account
NYTCo
Subscribe
Subscribe
Home Delivery
Digital Subscriptions
Crossword
Email Newsletters
Alerts
Gift Subscriptions
Corporate Subscriptions
Education Rate
Mobile Applications
Replica Edition
Site Information Navigation
© 2017 The New York Times Company
Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com . We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Information Navigation
Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions
