Jump to Navigation
Advertise
About
Contact
Subscribe
search
Search form
search
*
Close Menu
| View Exclusive AAUP Compensation Survey Data |
Menu
News
News
Admissions Insider
Digital Learning
Diversity Matters
Quick Takes
Around the Web
Events & People
Booklets
Audio
Topics
OPINION
Views
Blog U
Career Advice
Surveys
AAUP Faculty Compensation Survey
Webcasts
Jobs
Job Search
Dual Career Search
Career Advice
My Job Alerts
My Saved Jobs
Hire Faculty & Staff
News
Admissions Insider
Digital Learning
Diversity Matters
Views
Career Advice
Blog U
Surveys
Webinars
Events & People
Jobs
Admissions
Books
Technology
Community Colleges
Diversity
Teaching & Learning
Global
Audio
Booklets
More
« Back to News  
Print This
Relying on Women, Not Rewarding Them
New study suggests female professors outperform men in terms of service -- to their possible professional detriment.
By
Colleen Flaherty
April 12, 2017
Comments
 
iStock
Women shoulder a disproportionately large workload at home in ways that might disadvantage them professionally . But are female professors also “taking care of the academic family” via disproportionate service loads? A new study says yes and adds to a growing body of research suggesting the same.
“We find strong evidence that, on average, women faculty perform more service than male faculty in academia, and that the service differential is driven particularly by participation in internal rather than external service,” the study says. “When we look within departments -- controlling for any type of organizational or cultural factor that is department specific -- we still find large, significant differences in the service loads of women versus men.”
All that matters because service loads “likely have an impact on productivity in other areas of faculty effort such as research and teaching, and these latter activities can lead directly to salary differentials and overall success in academia,” the paper says. “In the urgency to redress not only differences in time use but compensation imbalances, as well, the service imbalance is one that deserves to rise to the forefront of the discussion.”
“Faculty Service Loads and Gender: Are Women Taking Care of the Academic Family?” published in Research in Higher Education, was written by Cassandra M. Guarino, professor of education and public policy at the University of California, Riverside, and Victor M. H. Borden, professor of educational leadership and policy studies at Indiana University at Bloomington. The authors considered data from the 2014 Faculty Survey of Student Engagement, a web-based national survey related to the National Survey of Student Engagement. The faculty survey included responses from nearly 19,000 faculty members at 143 colleges and universities, and asked about how faculty members spend their time (in addition to professors’ views on student engagement).
Guarino and Borden limited their analysis of the national survey to responses from tenured or tenure-track faculty members at four-year colleges and universities, or about 40 percent of the sample. The national survey asked only how many hours a week faculty members spent on service, not which kinds of service they did or how departments were run. So the authors supplemented that data with those from much more detailed yearly faculty activity reports from two research-intensive campuses (one flagship and one “urban”) of an unnamed Midwestern university. The latter data set, from 2012, pertained to about 1,400 tenured or tenure-track faculty members. They reported whether their service was “internal,” performed on campus, or the  more visible “external” kinds of service performed off campus for professional associations and other groups or communities.
Women Do More
In a first, basic crack at the data, the authors determined that women in the national sample performed 30 more minutes per week of service than men and 1.5 more service activities per year than men in the local sample, and that the difference was statistically significant in both cases.
To glean more meaningful results and control for a number of factors, they proceeded with a multiple regression analysis. In the national sample, women reported 0.6 hours more service per week than men, controlling for rank, race and discipline. Female full professors, in particular, reported significantly more time spent on service than male full professors -- though full professors of both genders spent the most time on service over all. Faculty members in business and some sciences appeared to spend less time on service than those in the arts and humanities.
Results for the local data mirrored those for the national set. Controlling for rank, race, department and campus, female professors reported performing, on average, 1.4 more service activities per year than their male counterparts.
The difference was driven largely by internal service, the study says, with women performing approximately one more internal service activity annually than men.
Associate professors in the Midwest university sample reported performing more internal service than other ranks, but full professors exceeded them in terms of external service. “There was some evidence to suggest that that Asian female faculty performed more service than Asian male faculty, and that women in various fields performed differently than their male counterparts,” the paper notes. “Women in the public policy faculty performed significantly more service than men on that faculty, and women in law and, to a lesser degree, education performed less.”
Regarding external service, women reportedly perform more service than men in the categories of community service and national service.
Why Does It Happen?
The authors had some specific hypotheses as to why gender differentials in service exist, so they looked at the STEM, social science and liberal arts fields (their categories) separately. One hypothesis related to “proportionality,” or whether women are called on to do more service when there are fewer of them in an academic unit. They also considered the importance of gender in departmental leadership, to see if women with male supervisors do more service.
They found some evidence for both the proportionality and leadership hypotheses, varying by discipline. In STEM, having a female department chair was strongly correlated with female faculty members’ external service, which, the authors say, is driven by service to professional organizations and the international community. Within the social sciences, having a male department chair correlated with women doing more department-based service. Interestingly, in the liberal arts, having female chairs correlated with women doing more service, especially within the department -- “a finding that would go against the hypothesis that women are asked to do more service or less likely to refuse requests by male chairs,” the study says.
Guarino and Borden also explored whether women might have a heightened perception of the presence of an ‘‘internal’’ track into paid administrative roles via internal service. But there was little evidence to suggest that, at least in the limited local data, since women tended to be proportionately or underrepresented in such roles. One final explanation -- a gender difference in self-report bias -- proved difficult to assess.
Over all, the study says that the data sets “corroborate” each other, leaving “little doubt as to the existence of a gender imbalance in faculty service loads,” both in number of activities and amount of time spent on service.
Achieving Balance
Yet in the effort to achieve greater gender equity in academe, it continues, “service has often been overlooked as a factor in the quest for parity,” and “merits close attention.”
The authors assert that service is an area of inequity that can be addressed relatively easily, via careful monitoring of service requests and allocations. Female faculty members, it says, “could be mentored to show more selectivity in their service-related choices and cultivate their ability to say no to requests.” Department chairs and deans, meanwhile, “could be made to be more fully aware of how service assignments are being meted out. A simple increase in overall awareness of this issue may improve overall attitudes toward service loads, remove traces of gender bias from service expectations and enable both women and men to accept or decline service requests with equal ease and impunity.”
Guarino in an interview underscored the concept of awareness, saying that women don’t necessarily know they’re doing or -- as the case may be -- being asked to do more until they see objective proof of service imbalances between male and female faculty members.
“There’s no woman who loves this stuff more than men,” she said of service. “But until we see evidence and we can really help women say no, it’s just going to keep happening.”
Guarino also emphasized institutional accountability for fixing gender service imbalances, saying it’s now virtually nonexistent. “There needs to be more internal monitoring of this,” from the department level to the provost’s office, she said.
Joya Misra, a professor of sociology and public policy at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst (and an Inside Higher Ed columnist) who has studied the gendered nature of faculty work , said she’s found “dramatic service differentials between men and women,” particularly among associate professors.
Despite the fact that women’s service work “is necessary for the institutions to survive,” she added, the “daily grind of service and leadership rarely carries the respect and reputational benefits of disciplinary service, while it actively limits women's research time.”
As to righting the imbalance, Misra said that it may seem like “women simply need to become more protective of their research time, as men are.” Yet they face “grave consequences if they are not perceived as team players,” she said, while men usually don’t.
Laura Perna, James S. Riepe Professor and executive director of the Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy at the University of Pennsylvania, said the new study sheds critical light on faculty workloads, especially with the suspension of the federally-funded National Study of Postsecondary Faculty in 2004.
More broadly, the study raises important questions about “what it is we are valuing in our reward system,” she said. Service, not always rewarded like other kinds of faculty work, “is really oriented toward advancing [an institution’s] collective mission.”
Read more by
Colleen Flaherty
jump to comments
Be the first to know.
Get our free daily newsletter.
 
Topics
Adjuncts
Admissions
Assessment and Accountability
Books and Publishing
Community Colleges
Diversity
For-Profit Higher Ed
Global
Health Professions
Religious Colleges
Retirement Issues
Student Aid and Loans
Students and Violence
Teaching and Learning
Technology
Want to advertise? Click here
Browse Jobs by Category
Subscribe for free today
Related Jobs from Inside Higher Ed Careers
Arts & Humanities jobs
Theater Faculty to Teach Fine Arts in General Education
Arkansas State University - Mexico
Arts & Humanities jobs
HIstory Faculty
Arkansas State University - Mexico
Arts & Humanities jobs
Tucker Boatwright Chair in Modern and Contemporary Art
University of Richmond - Virginia
Search Jobs Hiring? Post Your Job
 
+ -
Expand comments Hide comments   —   Join the conversation!
Today’s News from Inside Higher Ed
Middle East Tensions, U.S. Classrooms
Withering Humanities Jobs
Growing Less Equal
Inside Higher Ed’s Quick Takes
GAO Report on Non-Tenure-Track Faculty
Analysis: International Students Drove Enrollment Growth
Unusual Gift for West Texas A&M: $1 Million a Year for 80 Years
N.C. 2-Year System President Says He Was Forced Out
Academic Minute: Beer and the Environment
Luna CC Faces Loss of Accreditation
What Others Are Reading
Viewed
Past:
Day
Week
Month
Year
Back to Top
Inside Higher Ed
1015 18th Street NW
Suite 1100
Washington, DC 20036
Ph: 1-202-659-9208
Fax: 1-202-659-9381
1015 18th Street NW, Suite 1100 | PH: 1-202-659-9208
Copyright © 2017
Secondary menu
Contact Us
About Us
For Employers
Advertise
Work For Us
Testimonials
Rights and Permissions
Privacy
Share our content
Get our Daily News Update
 
Copyright © 2017
