Twitter logo icon
Business
Arrow down icon
Sign In
Search icon
Basics
Intro to Twitter
Create a profile
Twitter followers
What to Tweet
Connect with customers
Advertising on Twitter
Promote Mode
Campaign types
Targeting
Analytics
Resources and guides
Blog
Success stories
Agency resources
Customer insights: Followers
Website traffic how-to
Guide to global advertising
Ads help center
Overview
Create an ads account
Campaign setup
Editing and optimization
Measurement
Troubleshooting and FAQs
Contact us
Start a Campaign
How can we help?
Troubleshooting and FAQs
Time zones on Twitter Ads FAQs
Bidding and auctions FAQs
Multi-user login FAQ
Why aren't my ads receiving impressions?
FAQs about brand surveys
FAQs about insight surveys
How Twitter Ads work
Arrow down icon
Media Studio FAQs
Amplify Publisher FAQs
Troubleshooting and FAQs
How Twitter Ads work
We want to show you ads that you find interesting and useful. This article provides an overview of how Twitter Ads work, why you see certain ads, your privacy settings and other options.
Overview
About Twitter Ads
Arrow down icon
 
You may see different kinds of ads on Twitter, such as: Promoted Tweets , Promoted Accounts , and Promoted Trends . We may show these ads to you when you are logged in or logged out of Twitter. They are clearly marked with a “promoted” icon. You can interact with most promoted content in much the same way as organic content. If you follow, like, or Retweet content on Twitter, including promoted content, your followers may see your name associated with that content.
 
Why you see certain Twitter Ads
Arrow down icon
Your activity on Twitter, the information you provide to Twitter, and our relationships with ad partners all help make promoted content more relevant for you.
When you use Twitter to follow, Tweet, search, view, or interact with Tweets or Twitter accounts, we may use these actions to customize Twitter Ads for you. For example, if you search for a specific term, we may show you promoted content related to that topic. We also might customize ads using other information about you, such as your profile information; your mobile device location (if location features are turned on); your IP address; or the apps installed on your device. This helps us show you local ads and other ads that you might prefer.
Twitter may also personalize ads based on information that Twitter and our affiliates collect and that our ad partners share with us, such as a hashed email address, a mobile device identifier, or browser-related information (a browser cookie ID).
This helps Twitter display ads about things you’ve already shown interest in from brands and businesses that you may like. For example, you could receive a Promoted Tweet that includes a deal or promotion from a business whose website you frequent or email newsletter you subscribe to. You could also see this business as a Promoted Account in one of your Who to Follow suggestions Learn more .
Managing your privacy settings
Arrow down icon
We are committed to offering you meaningful privacy choices.
If you do not want Twitter to show you interest-based ads on and off of Twitter, there are several ways to turn off this feature:
Using your Twitter settings, visit the Personalization and data settings and adjust the Personalize ads setting.
If you are on the web, you can visit the Digital Advertising Alliance’s consumer choice tool at optout.aboutads.info to opt out of seeing interest-based advertising from Twitter in your current browser.
On your mobile device, enable the “Limit Ad Tracking” setting in your iOS phone’s settings, or the setting to “Opt out of Ads Personalization” in your Android phone’s settings.
Note: Please confirm that you are logged in if you want to view or change the web settings for your Twitter account. Changing your Twitter settings in your web browser when you are logged out will only affect behavior on that browser while you are not logged in to Twitter. Learn more about how to access your Personalization and data settings, including in your Twitter mobile app.
Twitter also works with its affiliate TellApart and third-party advertising partners, including Google, to market Twitter’s services and serve ads on behalf of Twitter advertisers, including through the delivery of interest-based ads. You can learn more about opting out of receiving interest-based ads at optout.aboutads.info and www.networkadvertising.org/choices and from TellApart’s FAQs . If you are on the web, you can also opt out of Google Analytics by installing Google’s opt-out browser add-on , and opt out of interest-based Google ads using Google’s Ads Settings .
Twitter also works with its affiliate MoPub and third-party advertising partners, including Google Doubleclick Bid Manager , The Trade Desk , and Ubimo , to serve ads on Twitter for iOS and Twitter for Android. You can use your Twitter settings and mobile device settings, as described above, to control whether you receive interest-based ads on Twitter from any of these partners. These ad partners may offer additional choices regarding the interest-based ads that they serve both on Twitter and on other services. You can find out more about these choices by visiting them directly. Twitter also offers additional controls for select ad partnerships.   Learn more about these select partnerships.
In addition, whether you're logged in or logged out, you always have the option to "dismiss" Promoted Tweets and Accounts that you're not interested in seeing. This feedback helps us show you better promoted content.
Start a Campaign
Visit Twitter Ads
Log in here
About
Company
Values
Safety
Blog
Brand Resources
Careers
Investors
Business
About Twitter Ads
Targeting
Analytics
Ads support
Business blog
Advertise
Developers
Documentation
Forums
Communities
Developer blog
Help Center
Using Twitter
My account
Fixing a problem
Policies and reporting
Safety Center
Marketing
Insights
Success Stories
Solutions
Collections
Marketing Blog
Flight School
© 2017 Twitter, Inc.
Cookies
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Language
Deutsch
English
Português
Français
日本語
Indonesian
Dutch
Spanish
Italian
