
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
CSU Wants Concordia to Change Bylaw, May Take Legal Action
Student Union Says University Bylaw Affecting Student-Protesters Contradicts Quebec Law
News by Jonathan Caragay-Cook — Published March 10, 2016 | Updated March 11, 2016 | Comments
Follow @Hiimbiracial
On Wednesday night, the CSU council passed a motion demanding that Concordia change a bylaw preventing students with formal disciplinary charges from serving on the Board of Governors and Senate, as well as other committees.  Photo Noelle Didierjean
The rights of students have been a topic of debate over the past year at Concordia University.
First, the question was whether students can strike.
Now, the Concordia Student Union is challenging a university bylaw that could prevent students reprimanded for striking from sitting on the Board of Governors and Senate—two of Concordia’s most important decision-making bodies.
On Wednesday night, the CSU council passed a motion demanding that Concordia change the bylaw in question, which would also prevent students with formal disciplinary charges from serving on other committees.
The motion stated legal action will be taken if the bylaw is not altered in accordance with Quebec’s act on accredited student associations. Article 32 of this law says that student associations like the CSU “alone” have the power to decide who sits on these university bodies.
“[The law] makes it very explicit the autonomy lies with the student association to make the judgment call,” said Terry Wilkings, general coordinator of the CSU.
The university bylaw is being scrutinized because as many as 22 student-protesters have recently received letters of reprimand—the lowest form of consequence—from independent tribunal panels for disrupting classes in last spring’s strikes.
Given that these students are also undergraduate leaders, the letters of reprimand will prevent them from representing students—despite being appointed to do just that.
Wilkings met with university president Alan Shepard on Thursday afternoon to discuss the matter.
“I think it was a productive conversation,” Wilkings said. “There wasn’t any commitments made.”
Shepard, in an interview on Wednesday, said he informed the CSU he would review the bylaw. He had no comment on any pending litigation. Wilkings is also planning to meet with Frederica Jacobs, secretary general of Concordia, to find possible informal resolution.
There is no conflict between the university bylaw and the Quebec law, according to university spokesperson Chris Mota. “The CSU has every right to nominate whoever they like,” she said. “But we as an institution have every right to set criteria for eligibility.”
She explained that the language in the bylaws will be reviewed to make it clearer, but any student who saw a charge upheld by a tribunal will not be eligible to sit on the various university bodies next year.
The CSU has been researching eligibility rules for other universities throughout Quebec, Wilkings said. According to him, they have found that Concordia is the only institution to have a bylaw preventing students with a disciplinary charge from serving on various bodies.
“These barriers exist [here],” he said. “They don’t exist throughout the province.”
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
Opinions
Forcing the Hand of Council
Gonzo Nieto
News
Political Science Students Seeking Accreditation
Josh Fischlin
News
Independent’s Day
Christopher Curtis
News
CSU Down Three Councillors in 10 Days
Andrew Brennan
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
