
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Another Year, Another Loss
CSU Posts 2014-2015 Deficit, Expects Surplus in 2015-2016
News by Michelle Pucci — Published January 20, 2016 | Updated January 20, 2016 | Comments
Follow @michellempucci
Year-end financial statements reveal a deficit of $179,352, which includes costs not normally accounted for in the annual budget. File Photo Nikolas Litzenberger
A new money-transfer system, as well as a new model for fee collection, should prevent the Concordia Student Union from running deficits like it has in the past two years.
Year-end financial statements reveal a deficit of $179,352, which include costs not normally accounted for in the annual budget. According to CSU General Coordinator Terry Wilkings, the 2014-2015 budget expected a deficit of more than $150,000.
Wilkings argued that the union actually produced a lower deficit than expected, since $85,000 of total 2015 expenses were caused by amortization—which is when costs for assets are spread out over time. CSU computers, software, equipment, furniture purchases and costs for space improvements at Reggie’s and The Hive Cafe are amortized.
“Considering that the previous year went $300,000 over their budget, I think we can say we performed well,” Wilkings said.
The 2013-2014 audited statements revealed a deficit of more than $330,000, when a surplus of $60,000 was expected.
“We projected it and consciously said this is how much we’re going to be losing year-over-year,” Wilkings said. “But the whole understanding is that we were going to need to create some sort of financial stability for the organization.”
Major expenses from the Student Space, Accessible Education and Legal Contingency fund include the cost of relocating the CSU’s advocacy office, an undisclosed settlement to the Canadian Federation of Students and lawyers’ fees. The SSAELC fund is an overhaul of the old Student Centre fund, which was created with the intention of buying a student-run building or space downtown.
Changing fee structures
During CSU general elections in March 2015, students voted in favour of reorganizing the union’s financing structure, increasing the amount of money paid by students to the CSU’s operating budget from $1.75 per credit to $1.97 per credit. Students also voted in favour of indexing CSU fees to the Consumer Price Index to prevent future deficits.
Wilkings said the CSU is expecting a small surplus by the end of his term.
The total amount of fees paid to the union haven’t changed from the previous year, at $3.80 per credit. But the union reorganized the way it collects fees by lowering the Student Space fee and by reallocating fees specifically for its Housing and Job Bank, Advocacy Centre and Legal Information Clinic.
2014-2015 Fees
General: $1.75
Non-Academic Clubs: $0.25
SSAELC: $1.50
Advocacy Centre: $0.30
Total: $3.80
2015-2016 Fees
CSU operations: $1.97
Advocacy Centre: $0.21
HOJO: $0.20
Legal Information Clinic: $0.17
CSU Clubs: $0.25
SSAELC: $1.00
Total: $3.80
In the past, the CSU collected fees that weren’t restricted to offices like HOJO, Legal Information Clinic and the Advocacy Centre. Funds that weren’t used would fall back into the general operating budget.
“It was not as transparent,” Wilkings said, referring to a controversy in 2013 when CSU executives were asked to apologize for throwing a party not stipulated in the budget at the end of their term, which cost $9,000. Wilkings said the move to more restricted funding began shortly after.
Real-time fee collection
The new Student Information System has also changed the way the union receives its fees.
Since the new SIS software was adopted, the CSU and other fee-collecting groups are given their fees as soon as students pay tuition, Wilkings said.
“It’s addressed our cash flow issue, because usually we would have to wait until after October to collect our first round of fees,” he added.
In the past, the CSU wouldn’t receive the money collected by Concordia from student tuition until after the course add/drop deadline. This meant that every semester the CSU needed to ensure that they had enough cash in their accounts from the previous semester to pay for the first month’s worth of salaries and other expenses, including orientation.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Concordia Tuition Fee Hikes Set for Next Year
Miriam Lafontaine
Opinions
Forcing the Hand of Council
Gonzo Nieto
News
CSU Discusses Hall Building Mezzanine Café Plans
Noelle Didierjean
News
President Lucas Takes Office
Christopher Curtis
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
