Skip to main content
Categories
Housing
Apartments
Room for Rent
Boarder
Looking for Roommates
Jobs
Off Campus
On Campus
Summer
Other
Buy/Sell
Books
Appliances
Electronics
Other
Services
Tutoring
Contact
FAQ
Login      Register
Enter Keyword...
Location
Category
Distance / Proximity
Distance
My Location

Off Campus
Latest Ads Most Popular Ads Random Ads

Hiring Accounting and Finance Tutor (Graduate...
0
Hit the Books is a group of Outstanding Graduate Degree / M.Sc. / PhD holders or Candidates and Independent Scholars in different fields. We are proud that our team in Science, Engineering, Languages, and Art are among the Top University Candidates or Graduates in their respective fields. Highly experienced in tutoring, we help students at all levels with all their educational needs, with the highest possible quality and at the most competitive rates.Position: Accounting and Finance TutorDescription: The tutor is assigned to tutor different level accounting and financial courses. Most of our students are High School, CEGEP, university undergraduates, graduates and professionals. We provide one-on-one tutoring as well as small group courses. The tutoring sessions will be scheduled according to the availability our tutors provide, the courses they are confident tutoring, and the demand for tutoring services.Qualifications: Finished or pursuing graduate degree in related field, fluency in English Assets: Graduate degree (M.Eng., PhD) completed or in progress, fluency in English; previous tutoring/TA experience and fluency in French an assetStatus: hourly contract Salary: $17 - $24 per hour, depending on course level and number of students Job starts: ASAP Application Procedure: Please send your CV to info [at] hitthebooks.ca to the attention of Kirsten S, Administrative Assistant We would like to thank all applicants for their interest, however only those who qualify for the position will be contacted

Hiring French Tutor
0
Hit the Books: We are a group of outstanding Graduate Degree holders and PhD Candidates in different fields. Our team in Science, Engineering, Languages, and Art are among the Top University Candidates or Graduates in their respective fields. Highly experienced in tutoring, we confidently help our students with all their educational needs. We offer various educational services with the highest possible quality and at the most competitive prices in Montreal area.Position: French tutorDescription: The tutor is assigned to tutor different level French coursesQualifications: Degree holder/student in related fieldsAssets: Previous tutoring experienceWorking conditions:Status: Hourly contractSalary: $17-$24/hrJob starts: ASAPApplication Procedure:Please send your CV to the attention of:Kirsten SAdministrative Assistantinfo [at] hitthebooks.caDeadline for C.V.: Submit CV ASAPIn order to better assess your candidacy, we would like to invite you to fill out our Tutoring Application Form here: http://hitthebooks.ca/Pages/Jobs_Aplication_Form.html We would like to thank all applicants for their interest, however only those who qualify for the position will be contacted.

Hiring Chemical Engineering Tutor (Graduate...
0
Hit the Books is a group of Outstanding Graduate Degree / M.Sc. / PhD holders or Candidates and Independent Scholars in different fields. We are proud that our team in Science, Engineering, Languages, and Art are among the Top University Candidates or Graduates in their respective fields. Highly experienced in tutoring, we help students at all levels with all their educational needs, with the highest possible quality and at the most competitive rates.Position: Chemical Engineering tutorDescription: The tutor is assigned to tutor different different-level courses in Chemical Engineering. Most of our students are university undergraduates, and we provide one-on-one tutoring as well as small group courses. The tutoring sessions will be scheduled according to the availability our tutors provide, the courses they are confident tutoring, and the demand for tutoring services.Qualifications: Finished or pursuing graduate degree in related field, fluency in English Assets: Graduate degree (M.Eng., PhD) completed or in progress, fluency in English; previous tutoring/TA experience and fluency in French an assetStatus: hourly contract Salary: $17 - $24 per hour, depending on course level and number of students Job starts: ASAP Application Procedure: Please send your CV to info [at] hitthebooks.ca to the attention of Kirsten S, Administrative Assistant We would like to thank all applicants for their interest, however only those who qualify for the position will be contacted

Customer Solutions and Innovations Business...
0
Being part of Air Canada is to become part of an iconic Canadian symbol, recently ranked the best Airline in North America. Let your career take flight by joining our diverse and vibrant team at the leading edge of passenger aviation. The Customer Solutions & Innovations (CSI) team is responsible for designing, developing, implementing and maintaining a broad range of IT products and applications, enabling the realization of objectives for the Commercial, Customer Service, and IT branches. The Business Analyst CSI analyzes business needs and contributes to the development of ac2u, retail/Flight pass products including Corporate Rewards applications, jointly with other CSI teams for the delivery of integrated multi-platform IT products and solutions.
Contribute to all cycles of development activities of projects and enhancements from concept development, to design, development, acceptance testing, implementation and deployment support as set out by the Air Canada Corporate Rewards (ACCR) roadmap.
Collaborate with other areas of the organization (eCommerce and Customer Service Platform) in the development of integrated IT products, across all platforms and channels.
Analyze customer requests for ac2u, ACCR enhancements through investigation of current functionality and processes.
Collaborate in the documentation of functional business requirements based on business analysis findings and consultation with stakeholder community. 
Act as a liaison agent between the business community, technical teams and vendors.
Facilitate document reviews with stakeholders and ensure final document signoff. 
Ensure all business requirements and timelines are understood and that solutions deliver on expected benefits.
Define use cases and high-level test scenarios, provide leadership and guidance to the test team in the development of test scripts and analysis of results.
Ensure system integrity and provide incident support as required.
Trouble shoot system problems, assess business impact and recommend priority and test system fixes as require with third party service providers.
Provide IT maintenance support throughout the life cycle of products and services.
Conduct Customer Relations and Corporate Security investigations pertaining to our ACCR platform
Qualifications 
Bachelor’s degree or college diploma in Computer Science and/or ECommerce or three-five years experience in an IT environment.
Knowledge of current web technologies and trends, including but not limited to XML, Web 2.0 concepts, Web Services and Service Oriented Architectures.
Knowledge of RESIII, Aircanada.com, airline reservations systems, and Altéa PSS a strong asset. 
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, with ability to translate technical concepts into business terms.
Exceptional analytical, organizational and communication skills.
Possess investigative nature and be self-motivated.
Results oriented with proactive and methodical approach to problem solving.
Able to multi-task and work under pressure against tight deadlines and changing priorities. 
Must be a team player with ability to work closely with diverse groups and working styles.
Ability to establish and maintain effective business relationships. 
Strong knowledge and experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Quality Assurance (QA) testing, impact assessments and work effort estimations. 
Flexibility and willingness to work extended hours, when required.
Highly proficient with MS Office, including Microsoft Project, Visio and Internet browsers. 
LINGUISTIC REQUIREMENTSBased on equal qualifications, preference will be given to bilingual candidates. At Air Canada, we want to fly higher when it comes to employment equity. We, therefore, encourage applications from Aboriginal peoples, women, members of a visible minority and persons with a disability.Air Canada thanks all candidates for their interest; however only those selected to continue in the process will be contacted.  Job: Information TechnologyPrimary Location: CA-QC-DORVAL-YULSchedule: Full-timeWage to discussLink :  https://aircanada.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?job=19068&tz=G...  Appartenir à Air Canada, c’est appartenir à un symbole canadien, Air Canada récemment élue meilleur transporteur aérien en Amérique du Nord. Faites décoller votre carrière en vous joignant à notre équipe novatrice et diversifiée à l’avant-garde du transport aérien de passagers. L'équipe de Solutions clientèle et Innovations est responsable de la conception, du développement, de la mise en œuvre et de l'entretien d'un grand nombre de produits TI et d'applications, permettant la réalisation des objectifs d’affaires des Affaires commerciales, du Service clientèle, et de la Technologie de l'information.L'analyste – Systèmes de gestion – Solutions clientèle et Innovations analyse les besoins de l'entreprise et contribue au développement des applications AC@vous – Vente au détail, gestion des Passes de vols et des autres applications associées au commerce électronique, notamment le système Affaires Plus, en collaboration avec d'autres équipes des Solutions clientèle et Innovations afin d'élaborer des solutions et des produits TI intégrés multiplateformes.
Participer à toutes les activités du cycle de développement des projets ainsi qu'aux améliorations (de la définition à l'élaboration du concept, aux essais d’acceptation, à la mise en œuvre et au soutien) tel que défini dans la feuille de route du programme Affaires Plus d’Air Canada.
Collaborer avec d'autres secteurs de l'organisation (Commerce électronique et plateforme du Service clientèle) dans l'élaboration de produits TI intégrés, pour l'ensemble des plateformes et canaux de distribution.
Analyser les demandes d'amélioration liées à ac@vous , Affaires Plus provenant des clients en étudiant la fonctionnalité et les processus actuels. 
Participer à la documentation des exigences commerciales fonctionnelles, en fonction des constatations découlant des analyses commerciales et des consultations avec les parties prenantes.
Agir comme agent de liaison entre le milieu des affaires et les équipes techniques.
Faciliter l'examen des documents par les intervenants et s'assurer d'obtenir l'approbation de la version définitive. 
S’assurer que toutes les exigences commerciales et les échéances sont bien comprises et que les solutions apportent les résultats escomptés.
Définir des cas d'utilisation et des scénarios de test généraux et assurer l'orientation et la direction de l'équipe dans l'élaboration des scripts de test et dans l'analyse des résultats.
Veiller à l'intégrité du système et fournir du soutien en cas d'incident.
Offrir des services de dépannage, évaluer les répercussions commerciales des problèmes, formuler des recommandations sur la priorité des corrections et tester celles-ci.
Assurer la maintenance continue de produits et services TI. 
Procéder à des enquêtes à la demande des Relations clientèle et de la Sûreté de l’entreprise entourant la plateforme du programme Affaires Plus
Compétences 
Baccalauréat ou diplôme d’études collégiales en informatique ou en commerce électronique, ou de trois à cinq années d’expérience dans un environnement de TI.
Connaissance approfondie des technologies et tendances Web actuelles, notamment de XML, des concepts Web 2.0, des services Web et des architectures orientees services. 
Connaissance de la base de données RESIII, d'aircanada.com, des systèmes de réservation pour le transport aérien, un atout important. 
Talent avéré pour la communication orale et écrite et capacité à convertir des concepts techniques en applications commerciales.
Excellent esprit d’analyse, avec une attention aux details.
Attitude axée sur les résultats et approche proactive et méthodique à l’égard de la résolution de problèmes.
Habileté à effectuer plusieurs tâches simultanément ainsi qu'à travailler sous pression dans des délais serrés et avec des priorités changeantes.
Esprit d'équipe et habileté à travailler étroitement avec des groupes diversifiés de personnes ayant différents styles de travail.
Capacité d'établir et d'entretenir des relations d'affaires efficaces. 
Connaissance approfondie et vaste expérience des essais d'acceptation par l'utilisateur, des essais d'assurance de la qualité, des évaluations des répercussions et des estimations des efforts. 
Souplesse et disponibilité pour faire des heures supplémentaires au besoin.
Maîtrise parfaite de la suite Office de Microsoft (y compris Microsoft Project, Visio) et des navigateurs Internet. 
EXIGENCES LINGUISTIQUESÀ compétences égales, la préférence sera accordée aux candidats bilingues.Chez Air Canada, nous voulons aller plus loin en matière d'équité. Nous invitons tout particulièrement les Autochtones, les femmes, les personnes handicapées et les membres des groupes des minorités visibles à postuler.Air Canada remercie tous les candidats de leur intérêt, mais seules les personnes sélectionnées pour une entrevue seront contactées. Emploi: Information TechnologyEmplacement principal: CA-QC-DORVAL-YUL Horaire: Temps pleinSalaire à discuterLink :  https://aircanada.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?job=19068&tz=G...

10 hours a week- Nanny for 2 children living 6...
0
The Genies' Services is a company offering different services, including tutoring and childminding.We are currently looking for an experienced nanny/babysitter to take care of 2 children, 2 and 4-year old, every day from Monday to Friday from 4:30pm to 6:30pm.- To pick them up from the daycare center at 4:30pm, 5080 Rue West Broadway, Montréal, QC H4V - To take them home, 10 minutes away from the daycare center- To help the mother with the preparation of the dinnerPay: 13$/hourBeginning of employment: 20th November Please send your resume if you are interested

Animateur/trice
0
Les animateurs sont responsables d’appredre et mettre en place les programmes qui consistent pour des groups d’enfants qui contient environ 10-20 personnes qui sont entre les ages de 5-12.Nous recherchons pour un/e animateur-rice pour nos programmes parascolaire à des écoles différentes autour l’île de Montréal. L’animateur serait responsible pour mettre en place nos jeux et programmes qui étaient désignés spécifiquement pour les jours parascolaires.

Animator at Dynamix Adventures Inc.
0
Animators are responsible for learning and implementing recreational programs consisting of fun games for groups of 10-20 children aged 5-12 years old.   All programs must be run in a fun, energetic and positive manner, with an emphasis on our key three: Respect, Cooperation and Team Spirit.  Animators are responsible for the emotional and physical safety of the group. Events typically consist of 4 - 6 hour days of work.   Why you should join our team! 
Flexible hours, designed to fit student needs
Paid training, mileage compensation and referral bonus!
Incredible opportunity for students from educational and recreational programs to gain relevant work experience.

Dynamix Retreat Lead Facilitator
0
Animators are responsible for learning and implementing recreational programs consisting of fun games for groups of 10-20 children aged 5-12 years old.  All programs must be run in a fun, energetic and positive manner, with an emphasis on our key three: Respect, Cooperation and Team Spirit.  Animators are responsible for the emotional and physical safety of the group. Events typically consist of 4 - 6 hour days of work.   Why you should join our team! 
Flexible hours, designed to fit student needs
Paid training, mileage compensation and referral bonus!
Incredible opportunity for students from educational and recreational programs to gain relevant work experience.

job offer part time
0
customer service in a bakery / pastry shop. set up and opening of the store on weekends. Possibility of one to two extra days in the week on the occasion. Must speak English and French.

Valet/cassier
0
We are Safeway parking  and manage the parking and valet service at the Marriott Chateau Champlain Hotel downtown. We are looking to train and hire people to work as valets, cassiers and direct trafficfor events when they are scheduled. Looking for candidates to begin working immediately, following a short training period. 

HIRING NOW!! HOUSE SITTER AND PET SITTER
0
LOOKING FOR CHRISTMAS/HOLIDAY WORK?
If you have a passion for animals & plants and have your own car, Manor Minder has a job for you.
Having your own car is a requirement.
You must live in one of the following ares: "Cote St. Luc, Hampstead, Westmount , N.D.G., Montreal West"
***** UNFORTUNATELY< CANDIDATES LIVING OUT OF THESE AREAS CANNOT BE CONSIDERED.
 
JOB DESCRIPTION:
You will be responsible to visit clients' homes while they are on vacation. You will be required to water plants. bring in the mail, ensure the security of the house and monitor the temperature in the house.You must give the house a "lived -in look"In homes where there are animals, aside for feeding and cleaning their cages/litter boxes, the fun part will be providing playtime, brushing or cuddling in order to keep them happy while their owners are away.
Categories
<< Come Back
Off Campus11
On Campus6
Summer0
Other0
Useful Links
Reset Password
Our Blog
Contact Us
Legal
Follow us
Facebook Page
© 2015 Concordia Student Union
HOJO Classifieds brought to you by HOJO and the CSU
