Skip to main content
Categories
Housing
Apartments
Room for Rent
Boarder
Looking for Roommates
Jobs
Off Campus
On Campus
Summer
Other
Buy/Sell
Books
Appliances
Electronics
Other
Services
Tutoring
Contact
FAQ
Login      Register
Enter Keyword...
Location
Category
Distance / Proximity
Distance
My Location
Latest Ads Most Popular Ads Random Ads

Spacious studio apt in downtown Montreal
$765
765.00
Spacious studio in apartment in downtown Montreal. 5 Mins away from Metro Guy-Concordia, 
 
sublet 1st November - June 2018 with option of lease renewal 
 
Freely included : double bed and new mattress and new desk 
 
Washer and dryer in the building 

Super spacious and bright bedroom for sublet!
$450
450.00
I am leaving Montreal for three months and am looking for someone to take over my bedroom in that time. It is a very spacious bedroom with four large windows (it is at the corner of the building) and comes fully furnished. I live with three other students from Concordia and Dawson. The apartment is right near the 105 busstop, which is a straight 7 minute ride to Vendome metro. We have a washing machine in our apartment, and there is also a Laundromat right downstairs. There is a pharmacy, restaurants, grocery stores right outside. Electricity (heating as well) not included, but internet is. Please message me if you have any questions.   

4 1/2 Apartment Concordia Loyola Campus
$795
795.00
Renovated 4 1/2 apartment available to rentLocated in Notre-Dame-de-Grace neighboorhoodAddress: 5275 Walkley
Quiet and Safe
In Walking distance to Concordia University - Loyola Campus
Near all commodities and bus routes (51, 103, 104, 105)
Fridge and Stove included
Heating and hot water included in rent
Call: 514-690-1463Available: 1/ 01/ 2018795$

English tutor BA and TEFL Certified
0
Hi! My name is Jen. I am a trained TEFL teacher and have a Bachelor's in Psychology.  I have tutored in many subjects for high school and college students over the past 10 years and  have recently started tutoring uni students. My services range from 20$/hr to 25$/hour, depending on student's needs and goals. I can help you if:- You are an international student looking to refine your Englsih skills in pronunciation, spelling, writing,...etc- Proofreading/editing work before submitting- If you are taking college courses (math, sciences,...) and want tutoring- Ask! I will do this by:- Preparing customized lesson plans to meet your needs- Preparing you for the tests or exams by providing similar practice work as professor- Making myself more available to you closer to exam time to maximize practice runs/clarifications - Open and constant communication with the student about needs and goals to ensure proper fruition in lesson planning and delivery of such. Send me a message if interested. Schedule is piling up, so don't wait too long! :)Jen 

Sustainability Action Fund Project Coordinator
0
APPLICATION DEADLINE: November 5th, 2017 at 11:59pm.
Please submit a cover letter and CV in one PDF file to Nadra Wagdy at ceo@safconcordia.ca . Interviews will be conducted on the week of November 13th.
The  Sustainability Action Fund Concordia  (SAF) is a student fee-levy organization that funds projects which develop sustainable infrastructure, urban agriculture, community-building, and education surrounding environmental and community issues, with the long-term goal of inspiring and developing a culture of sustainability at Concordia University.
Funding approximately 30 projects a year since 2007, the fund is looking to hire a new Project Coordinator to oversee the project application process and to be a point of contact for active and potential projects. If you are passionate about our mission and enjoy overseeing projects and analyzing metrics, we look forward to your application.
Contract Term: December 1st 2017 to November 30, 2018. This is a one-year contract, with the possibility to renew for a second year. 
Starting remuneration: $15 to $16 per hour, based on qualifications.
Hours: 15 hours per week.
Benefits: SAF offers a professional development fund for all employees to pursue extra training related to your job; Flexible working hours; Small-team and collaborative working environment.
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
- Coordinate and oversee the Sustainability Action Fund (SAF) application process and procedures. In collaboration with the Chief Executive Officer, revise and develop procedures as appropriate;
- Support project teams by providing coaching and feedback. Summarize and convey feedback to teams at various stages of the application process;
- Organize, coordinate and facilitate the meetings of the SAF Special Projects Committee.Send a summary of recommendations to the committee’s members;
- Review midterm and final reports of funded projects; provide feedback to teams;
- Document and track project data and deliverables on an on-going basis, and manage an Excel database of all projects;
- Conduct qualitative and quantitative analysis and draft monthly reports showcasing SAF’s project funding metrics;
- Draft reports on SAF’s project funding metrics to be presented at the Annual General Meeting and quarterly at board meetings;
- Manage all communications to SAF funded projects via STREAK;
Hold fixed hours 2 days a week for project groups.
 
 
Facebook event :  https://www.facebook.com/events/1826243744060191/?acontext=%7B%22ref%22%...
 
 

Centrally-located 3 1/2 15 min. walk from...
$896
896.00
Lease transfer for December 1 (until end of June)Apartment features:• Fridge, stove and dishwasher included • Big windows and abundance of natural light • Plenty of storage space • Cat friendly • Included in rent: heat, hot water, electricityQuiet, carefully-maintained building features:• Laundry room • Indoor pool, sauna and whirlpool bath • Fitness equipment • Underground (with fee) and outdoor (included) parking • Superintendant on siteCentrally-Located :• < 5 min. walk to 2 grocery stores, Pharmaprix, SAQ, dry cleaners, Energie Cardio, Tim Hortons, numerous shops and restaurants • < 15 min. walk to Concordia University’s Loyola Campus or 8 min. bus ride • Bus and metro: Vendôme (8 min. bus) and Villa Maria (10 min. bus), buses: 90, 105, 104, 138, 420, 162Rent: 896$ per month - Please text or call Kristel at 514 297-3199

The Sounds of Language (An Intro to Phonetics)
0
Hardly any markings if at all and the book is in excellent condition.

Learn Mandarin Chinese & Spice up your...
0
Hi guys!!! If you've clicked this ad, that means you must be very interested in learning Mandarin!!!
Yasss! As you all know, Mandarin has become one of the most popular second language people choose to learn. WHY? Because, it's spoken by the largest amount of people around the world, plus it is valuable to be able to explore  worldwide opportunities. Whether it be in  local Chinese companies or in non-Chinese companies who want to do business in China, mandarin is an essential asset. 
I'm an international student who was born and raised in China. During my 3-year experience in Montreal, I've taught Mandarinto my friends from various backgrounds from: Korea, Canada, Australia, America, Kenya, Norway and Morocco etc. 
It is fun experience, both for my friends and myself. I teach it through casual or professional conversation, which can give you chance to use and practicewhat you've learned, right after every class.
The price is very affodable and it will depend on your level. I will provide you with appropriate learning materials, whether you only know how to say "Nihao", or you need a partner to practice your business presentation with.
 
I will give you a free 45-minute trail class anytime you want, so then you can decide if you want to spend 2 hours every week with me :))))
If you want to contact me, text me by 514-573-9288, or email me at danxihuang816@gmail.com
Life is short, learn a valuable language and expand your horizon!
Look forward to meeting you sometime in the future!

Valet/cassier
0
We are Safeway parking  and manage the parking and valet service at the Marriott Chateau Champlain Hotel downtown. We are looking to train and hire people to work as valets, cassiers and direct trafficfor events when they are scheduled. Looking for candidates to begin working immediately, following a short training period. 

Appartements étudiants a MTL a louer! Toutes...
$785
785.00
La MARQ 515 est située au coin de la rue Sainte-Catherine et de la rue City Councillors, au coeur du centre-ville de Montréal, à une distance de marche à McGill et d'autres universités et collèges. * Conditions de location flexibles - Renseignez-vous sur nos options de 4, 8 et 12 mois! - Prix réduit pour des durées de location plus longues *Groupe et options individuelles disponibles - options mixtes, hommes seulement et femmes seulement disponibles* Application pour s’inscrire par demande en ligne, cliquez ici pour enregistrer: http://bit.ly/2hut0yV  * Venez en groupe de 3 ou plus et chaque personne reçoit 250$ de rabais sur votre bail Les suites sont tout compris! Voici ce que vous obtenez:
Tous les uitilites inclus
Cuisines privées dans chaque suite!
Entièrement meublé
Internet haute vitesse
Câble
Chambres privées - Sécurisé avec accès par clé
Immenses suites - presque 1800 pieds carrés! Beaucoup d'espace de vie
Unités entièrement rénovées offrant les finitions les plus luxueuses dans le logement étudiant
La propriété offre des équipements de pointe:
Buanderie sur chaque étage
Salle de gym et de yoga
Salons d'étude
Salle de théâtre
Grand salon avec table de billard, table de ping-pong, etc.
Paiements de loyer en ligne, y compris les options de carte de crédit
Les offres de la communauté:
En plein coeur du centre-ville
À quelques pas de l'Université McGill et à quelques minutes de Concordia
Prix et disponibilité:BAUX DE 4 MOIS (à partir de janvier 2018)Chambre intérieure standard - 825 $ Grande salle intérieure - 855 $ Chambre standard avec fenêtre - 899 $ Chambre Fenêtre - 930 $ BAUX DE 8 MOIS:Chambre intérieure standard - 805 $ Grande salle intérieure - 835 $ Chambre standard avec fenêtre - 879 $ Chambre Fenêtre - 910 $ BAUX DE 12 MOIS:Chambre intérieure standard - 785 $ Grande salle intérieure - 815 $ Chambre standard avec fenêtre - 859 $ Chambre Fenêtre - 890 $Comment voir une suite! * En personne - entrez dans la résidence au 1430 City Councillors , Montreal! *Texte #book au 1 844-684-9333 ou copier ce lien  http://bit.ly/2spxMFA  pour planifier un rendez-vous en ligne  * Rendez-vous virtuel - Facebook, Skype et Facetime disponibles * Voir notre visite virtuelle de chaque type et enregistrer en ligne! Avez-vous plus de questions?  Appelez notre équipe de service à la clientèle: 1 844 684 9323

HIRING NOW!! HOUSE SITTER AND PET SITTER
0
LOOKING FOR CHRISTMAS/HOLIDAY WORK?
If you have a passion for animals & plants and have your own car, Manor Minder has a job for you.
Having your own car is a requirement.
You must live in one of the following ares: "Cote St. Luc, Hampstead, Westmount , N.D.G., Montreal West"
***** UNFORTUNATELY< CANDIDATES LIVING OUT OF THESE AREAS CANNOT BE CONSIDERED.
 
JOB DESCRIPTION:
You will be responsible to visit clients' homes while they are on vacation. You will be required to water plants. bring in the mail, ensure the security of the house and monitor the temperature in the house.You must give the house a "lived -in look"In homes where there are animals, aside for feeding and cleaning their cages/litter boxes, the fun part will be providing playtime, brushing or cuddling in order to keep them happy while their owners are away.

Student Apartments near Concordia! Free WIFI...
$859
859.00
La MARQ 515 is located at the corner of St. Catherine St. W & St. Alexander Street in the heart of downtown Montreal, walking distance to McGill and other universities & colleges.*Flexible lease terms - Ask about our 4, 8 & 12 month options! - Pricing reduced for longer lease terms*Group and individual options available - co-ed, male & female options available*Simple online application process, click here to apply: http://bit.ly/2hut0yV *Come as a group of 3 or more and each person gets $250The suites are all inclusive! Here's what you get:
All uitilites included
Private kitchens and bedrooms in each suite!
Fully Furnished
Hi-Speed Internet
Cable
Private Bedrooms - Secured with key access
Huge suites - almost 1800 sq. ft! Lots of living space
Fully renovated units offering the most luxury finishes in student housing
The Property offers State of the Art amenities:
Laundry on every other floor
Gym & Yoga Room
Study lounges
Theatre room
Large resident lounge with a pool table, ping pong table, etc.
Online rent payments, including credit card options
The Community Offers:
Right in the heart of downtown
Steps from McGill University & Minitues away from Concordia
Metro Grocery store right outside the building
Prices & Availability:4-MONTH LEASES (Starting in Jan. 2018)Standard Interior Room - $825Large Interior Room - $855Standard Window Room - $899Window Room - $9308-MONTH LEASES:Standard Interior Room - $805Large Interior Room - $835Standard Window Room - $879Window Room - $91012-MONTH LEASES:Standard Interior Room - $785Large Interior Room - $815Standard Window Room - $859Window Room - $890How to view a suite!* In person - come on into the residence at 1430 rue City Councillors!* Text #book to 1 844-684-9333 or copy this link  http://bit.ly/2spxMFA  to schedule an online appointment* Virtual Appointment - Facebook, Skype & Facetime available* View our virtual tour of each type and apply online!Have more questions?Call our Customer Care Team: 1-844-684-9323 
Pages
« first
‹ previous
1
2
3
4
5
6
next ›
last »
Browse our 63 Ads from 4 Categories

Housing31
Apartments20
Room for Rent11
Boarder0
Looking for Roommates0

Jobs17
Off Campus11
On Campus6
Summer0
Other0

Buy/Sell2
Books1
Appliances0
Electronics0
Other1

Services13
Tutoring13
Useful Links
Reset Password
Our Blog
Contact Us
Legal
Follow us
Facebook Page
© 2015 Concordia Student Union
HOJO Classifieds brought to you by HOJO and the CSU
