Skip to main content
Categories
Housing
Apartments
Room for Rent
Boarder
Looking for Roommates
Jobs
Off Campus
On Campus
Summer
Other
Buy/Sell
Books
Appliances
Electronics
Other
Services
Tutoring
Contact
FAQ
Login      Register
Enter Keyword...
Location
Category
Distance / Proximity
Distance
My Location
Latest Ads Most Popular Ads Random Ads

Animator at Dynamix Adventures Inc.
0
Animators are responsible for learning and implementing recreational programs consisting of fun games for groups of 10-20 children aged 5-12 years old.   All programs must be run in a fun, energetic and positive manner, with an emphasis on our key three: Respect, Cooperation and Team Spirit.  Animators are responsible for the emotional and physical safety of the group. Events typically consist of 4 - 6 hour days of work.   Why you should join our team! 
Flexible hours, designed to fit student needs
Paid training, mileage compensation and referral bonus!
Incredible opportunity for students from educational and recreational programs to gain relevant work experience.

Dynamix Retreat Lead Facilitator
0
Animators are responsible for learning and implementing recreational programs consisting of fun games for groups of 10-20 children aged 5-12 years old.  All programs must be run in a fun, energetic and positive manner, with an emphasis on our key three: Respect, Cooperation and Team Spirit.  Animators are responsible for the emotional and physical safety of the group. Events typically consist of 4 - 6 hour days of work.   Why you should join our team! 
Flexible hours, designed to fit student needs
Paid training, mileage compensation and referral bonus!
Incredible opportunity for students from educational and recreational programs to gain relevant work experience.

Cozy Room with Private Balcony in 5 1/2 Ville...
$490
490.00
1 Bedroom in 5 1/2- available furnished or unfurnished Centre-Sud (South of Parc Lafontaine, North of Gay Village)Lease Transfer for December/January - July 2018. Cozy bedroom with private balcony Available with bed, frame, 6 drawer dresser, shelf unit, wardrobe (price negotiable) comes with fully furnished kitchen, living room and in-suite laundry 10 min walk- Papineau Metro/ 5 min walk 24 bus/ 1 min walk 125 bus2 Female roommates seeking female identifying and/or queer roommate

Large sunny room to sublet January-May in...
$500
500.00
We are looking for a third roommate (preferably female) to sublet a room in our 5 1/2 apartment in NDG for the months of January to May. Very pretty apartment, recently renovated and only an 8 minutes walk from the metro station Vendôme. Half a block from the Maisonneuve bike path and well connected by night buses. Fast and easy commute by public transit to both Concordia campuses! Close to all amenities such as groceries, pharmacies, bakeries, cafés, parks, libraries, etc. The two awesome roommates are full-time students so we will be around for the duration of the sublet.
Rent for the big bedroom is 500$ and includes hot water and unlimited internet. Bonus: Dishwasher, Washer and Dryer in the apartment plus windows in every room and a balcony!
For now this bedroom is not furnished, but we can furnish it with the basics for an extra 50$/month. 
Contact us for more details or to arrange a visit. We look forward to meeting you :)
----------
SNous cherchons une troisième coloc (préférablement une fille) pour louer une chambre de notre appartement 5 ½ de janvier à mai. Récemment rénové et situé à NDG à 8 minutes de marche de la station de métro Vendôme. La piste cyclable sur de Maisonneuve est à un coin de rue et l’appart est bien connecté au réseau de bus de nuit. Les deux campus de Concordia sont facilement accessibles par transport en commun! Près de plusieurs épiceries, pharmacies, boulangeries, parcs, bibliothèques, cafés, bref tout! Les deux super colocs sont des étudiantes à temps plein et seront donc présentes pour la durée de la sous-location.
Le loyer est de 500$ pour la grande chambre et inclut l’eau chaude et internet illimité. Lave-vaisselle, laveuse et sécheuse dans l'appart, fenêtres dans toutes les pièces et un balcon!
Pour l’instant cette chambre n’est pas meublée, mais des meubles de base pourraient êtres fournis pour 50$ de plus par mois. 
Contactez-nous pour plus de détails ou pour organiser une visite. On a hâte de vous rencontrer :) 

░▒▓ Professional Editing & Proofreading...
0
Hi! I am a McGill Master's degree graduate and former research assistant (R.A.), with an undergraduate Honors degree in English literature, and over 3 years of full-time academic and professional proof-reading and editing experience... My competitively priced essay, document, and thesis editing services can help you improve your grammar and syntax, correct bibliographic errors, suggest better reformulation of your ideas, and get you on your way to a better final draft! Non-native English (ESL) speakers welcome, so feel free to contact me for an estimate and free sample without obligation. Payment by Email Transfer, Paypal preferred. Thanks,T. --Thomas Layton-Smythe, B.A., M.AQuick Proof-Reading and Private Editing ServicesEmail: quickeditingandproofreading [at] gmail.comPhone & SMS: (438) 896-8920

CSU Receptionist
0
Responsibilities
- Greet students coming into the CSU office in a polite and pleasant manner, and provide detailed information about the CSU (including its services, campaigns, events, projects, and the Student Health and Dental coverage), and general information about university and affiliates services. Answer in-person, over the phone and email enquiries, and refer on as appropriate. 
- Accept requisition forms, special project & bursary applications, space reservation request, club registrations, and various other documents, ensure completeness of information, and forward to the appropriate executive and staff. 
- Approve postings according to established guidelines and inform students of current postering policy.
- Send faxes, distribute mail and packages, and maintain inventory of materials and supplies for the office.
- Update documents in reserve for the general public and CSU executives and staff. Photocopy and collate documents for distribution.
- Sell event tickets and promotional items. Maintain petty cash box.
- Assist executives, staff and student groups with booking meeting rooms and information booths. 
- Keep oneself informed as to what is currently going on within the organization.
- Keep oneself informed of relevant university and CSU’s policies and procedures.
Essential Requirement(s): 
- Excellent spoken English skills and fluent French conversational skills
- Punctual and patient with excellent interpersonal and organizational skills
- General knowledge of Concordia University and the CSU
- Good research skills
- Must be able to work independently with low supervision and as part of a team
- Be able to work at Loyola
- Computer literate, knowledge of Excel and Internet Explorer
- Must be authorized to work in Canada (valid SIN card required)
- Must be a full-time undergraduate student at Concordia University
- Internal candidates shall have preference according to the Collective Agreement
 
 

Roommate Wanted for SUNNY, SPACIOUS, CLOSE TO...
$550
550.00
About the Apartment: - SUNNY - SPACIOUS - LOTS OF STORAGE SPACE - HEATING, HOT WATER INCLUDED (electricity and internet separate) - Well-kept building - Apartment is surrounded by lovely trees - Laundry facilities in the building - The apartment is furnished but the room itself is not. The rent is $550 for the small room and $650 for the bigger room.Location: - 5 min away from grocery stores - 5 min away from restaurants - 3 min away from Pharmaprix/Jean Coutu - 5 min walk to Snowdon metro - 7 min walk to the 129 bus - 2 min walk to the 51 bus (Goes to Concordia Loyola Campus) - 2 min walk to 166 bus (goes to downtown directly) - 15 min away from Cote-des-Neiges (bus or metro)About me: I'm a young professional in my mid-twenties, working at McGill in research. I'm very open, friendly, outgoing, clean and very respectful. I'm looking for a roommate with similar values! Students and young professionals welcome! The apartment is available as of December 1st, 2017 (Can also be January 1st, 2018). Je parle francais aussi mais je suis plus a l'aise en anglais (:Female roommate preferred.  À propos de l’appartement : - ENSOLEILLÉ - SPACIEUX - BEAUCOUP D’ESPACE DE RANGEMENT - CHAUFFAGE ET EAU CHAUDE INCLUS (électricité et internet à part).L'appartement est meublé mais la chambre elle-même n'est pasLe loyer est de 550 $ pour la petite chambre et de 650 $ pour la plus grande chambre.Emplacement : - à 5 min des supermarchés - à 5 min des restaurants - à 3 min de Pharmaprix/Jean Coutu - à 5 min du métro Snowdon - à 7 min de marche du bus 129 - à 2 min de marche du bus 51 (se rend au campus Loyola de l’Université Concordia) - à 2 min de marche du bus 166 (se rend directement au centre-ville) - à 15 min de Cote-des-Neiges (en bus ou en métro)À propos de moi : Je suis une jeune professionnelle dans la mi-vingtaine. Je travaille en recherche à l’Université McGill. Je suis une personne ouverte, amicale, extravertie, propre et très respectueuse. Je cherche un ou une colocataire avec des valeurs semblables aux miennes. J’invite les étudiants et les jeunes professionnels à m’écrire! L’appartement sera libre à compter du 1er décembre 2017 ou si tu veux 1er Janvier 2018. Je parle français, mais je suis plus à l'aise en anglaisFemme colocataire préférée.

Pet Friendly 5 1/2 Apartment for Rent in Longueuil
$765
765.00
This apartment is located at 441 Rue Talbot, Longueuil, QC J4L 1T4
Available immediately
The rent
for 1 1/2 is $510 and
for 5 1/2 is $765 per month
Hot water is included
Heating, electricity, stove and fridge are Not inclueded
 
 
Parking at the roadside
Close to bus stop, grocery stores and primary school
Message 514-416-9228 to schedule your visit
TEXT MESSAGE ONLY PLEASE

Edison Residence - Room for rent
$750
750.00
Beautiful fully furnished all inclusive rooms are available for students at the Edison Residence, an innovative architecture building. Enjoy the convenience to live in downtown Montreal and having McGill University as your next door neighbor. The residence houses 30 rooms of either single or double occupancy.All Inclusive: 
WiFi
Furniture
Electricity
Heating/Cooling
Nice Single Room / Double Room:
Fully furnished: Single bed (bunk bed or double bed in double room), sink, mini-fridge, bookshelves, desk, lamp, chair, blind, sheets, etc.
Plenty of storage space, very big closets
Large window
Common Spaces:
8 bathrooms
Large kitchen
Living-room
Laundry room
Locality, easy access to public transportation, shopping, dining, cafés, groceries and Montreal underground city:
McGill University is just across the street
At 6 min walk from McGill metro station ( STM )
A few meters from two  BIXI  stations (self-service bicycle)
At 7 min walk from Provigo grocery store
At 8 min walk from Sainte-Catherine street (Primary commercial artery of Downtown Montreal)
 

job offer part time
0
customer service in a bakery / pastry shop. set up and opening of the store on weekends. Possibility of one to two extra days in the week on the occasion. Must speak English and French.

Nice Fully Furnished Apartment/ looking for a...
$470
470.00
Currently am sharing a fully furnished apartment that is right beside monk metro station with a roommate, but I have to move back to Vancouver in mid-December so am looking for someone to take my spot. Move in can be between Dec 1st to January 1st depending on when works best for you. Got a TV already set up and everything. For what it's worth your would be roommate is currently second year at Mcgill and is also a very quality dude so that's a major plus.

Service Desk Agent
0
IITS Service Desk is recruiting current students for part time work.Note: Applicants must be flexible to work weekdays between 7:30 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.ScopeReporting to the IITS Service Desk Manager, the incumbent delivers first level user support services to address the specific requirements of the Concordia student and academic community.Primary Responsibilities• Receive calls, e-mails, and walk-in support requests.  Analyze, troubleshoot, and resolve incidents and technical problems. Escalate to defined second level groups if necessary.• Record and track all incidents and requests.  Manage the request life-cycle, closing incidents and notifying customers.• Provide wireless configuration support.• Oversee IITS computer lab facilities, escalate service requests as needed. 
Pages
« first
‹ previous
1
2
3
4
5
6
next ›
last »
Browse our 63 Ads from 4 Categories

Housing31
Apartments20
Room for Rent11
Boarder0
Looking for Roommates0

Jobs17
Off Campus11
On Campus6
Summer0
Other0

Buy/Sell2
Books1
Appliances0
Electronics0
Other1

Services13
Tutoring13
Useful Links
Reset Password
Our Blog
Contact Us
Legal
Follow us
Facebook Page
© 2015 Concordia Student Union
HOJO Classifieds brought to you by HOJO and the CSU
