Skip to main content
Categories
Housing
Apartments
Room for Rent
Boarder
Looking for Roommates
Jobs
Off Campus
On Campus
Summer
Other
Buy/Sell
Books
Appliances
Electronics
Other
Services
Tutoring
Contact
FAQ
Login      Register
Enter Keyword...
Location
Category
Distance / Proximity
Distance
My Location
Latest Ads Most Popular Ads Random Ads

MONKLAND VILLAGE
$710
710.00
Lovely apt in the famous Monkland Village.3 1/2 all includedAll you need is your clothes, your phone and your pcnon smoking, no pets, no airb

Room for Rent (Perfect  time to get a good...
$350
350.00
 . ..Room for rent on Verdun Avenue, a main street in Verdun but quiet, so close to the two downtown universities and one CEGEP.. 10-15 minute walk to Metro Verdun, same line as Guy-Concordia..also three bus lines feed directly downtown areas....I'm close to Pharmaprix and PJC, IGA and a Dollarama..and various other shops.... The waterfront is also minutes away if you want to go for a quiet walk.I'm also offering movie passes or tickets sometimes for Movie premieres  when available, as I get passes for screenings, once or twice a month, after all, one needs a break from studies sometimes.. Move in details to be discussed if one needs to get used to area before starting school year or semester....Would be willing to have some sort of signed agreement if need be.References requested.. Big front and back galleries to enjoy the outside. .Parking space available if need be when space is not in use by myself. This is the perfect spot for those that want to be close to school but not next door.   This was my son's old room, but he's moved out a few years in case you're wondering..Walk-in closet is included and one dresser. and table and chair to do school work or just plain reading or having a meal privately...There is a portable system also included to listen to radio.Kitchen and bathrooms have been recently painted with new kitchen counters and cabinets as indicated in the picture........Call for more info or email if you would like to visit..

furnished room - condo Loyola
$495
495.00
Looking for a quiet female University student to rent a furnished clean, secure and quiet room in a condo in the Montreal-Ouest area close to many services. 7 minutes from Loyola Campus and Shuttle bus. The room will be available the week of January 1, 2018 - move in date can be discussed .Included are: internet, hydro, heat, washer/dryer, refrigerator, stove, microwave, toaster oven etc.Bus 162 stops almost in front of condo and 103 at the corner. Very near Loyola campus and the Shuttle busPlease contact 514-932-4169 or Cell: 514-240-6120 or e-mail leonie.morris [at] videotron.ca
Pages
« first
‹ previous
1
2
3
4
5
6
Browse our 63 Ads from 4 Categories

Housing31
Apartments20
Room for Rent11
Boarder0
Looking for Roommates0

Jobs17
Off Campus11
On Campus6
Summer0
Other0

Buy/Sell2
Books1
Appliances0
Electronics0
Other1

Services13
Tutoring13
Useful Links
Reset Password
Our Blog
Contact Us
Legal
Follow us
Facebook Page
© 2015 Concordia Student Union
HOJO Classifieds brought to you by HOJO and the CSU
