Professional Development | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Professional Development
CUPFA’s Professional Development Fund supports part-time faculty members in their own professional and academic development. There are two main categories of funding members can apply for: Professional Development grants and Small Claims. Professional Development grants provide funds that allow members to offset some of the heavy costs of research. They cover travel expenses, conference fees, hotel costs and per diems when members are presenting papers at conferences and pay for costs involved in the production or exhibition of artworks. Small Claims reimburse part-time faculty members for expenses directly related to teaching.
To be eligible for Small Claims members must have 12 seniority credits or more.  Members must have 24 credits or more to be eligible for Professional Development Grants.
The Professional Development of part-faculty members is of primary significance for the Association. CUPFA’s main objective is to provide funding in accordance with Article 17 of the CUPFA Collective Agreement to members who undertake research or creative endeavours. With professional development funds, the Association is able to advance the accomplishment of CUPFA members. The work and accomplishment of members is also promoted and/or showcased whenever possible at special events throughout the University.
Professional Development News 2016-17
» Download
Professional Development News 2014-15
» Download
Professional Development News 2013-14
»  Download
Professional Development News 2012-13
» Download
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
