
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Editorial: Making the Case for a Student Housing Co-op
Opinions by — Published February 17, 2015 | Updated February 17, 2015 | Comments
Graphic Sam Jones
Once upon a time, in downtown Montreal, there was a first-year international student desperately searching for housing. Because of work-related time constraints and the high costs of flying into the city and renting a hotel, she was only able to search for apartments over the course of 36 hours.
The pressures of finding an apartment in a new city, visiting it, negotiating numbers and signing a lease are taxing enough, but doing so with so little time leaves most first-years out of luck when it comes to finding a good deal. And so, this student lived “happily” ever after, to the tune of $900 per month. By 2017, “fairy tales” like these will become a little less common if Concordia undergrads vote in the upcoming CSU election for the student union to reallocate funds towards a student housing co-op project.
The rental market, like every other faction of free trade, preys on the unsuspecting. Nine tenants out of 10 have received excessive rent increases that added up to about $200 last year. Landlords aren’t respecting the guideline set out by the province’s Régie du logement, according to the resident advocate group Regroupement des comités logement et associations de locataires du Québec.
The university offers little protection for this type of predation. Currently, Concordia’s residences only provide housing to first-year students and spots are limited. Universities around the world, especially in the United States, prioritize upperclassmen as well as freshmen living spaces as many provide options for first-years transitioning outside the standard dorm rooms.
Where the university administration’s influence wanes, the CSU sees an opportunity to fulfill their mandate and help students keep their expenses to a minimum. The pressures of not making rent and juggling a part-time job on top of a demanding course load is not conducive for studying well and ultimately earning a degree. This initiative could help ease the pressure on students in these situtations, since the CSU’s Housing Co-op, presumably, will provide fair prices and not change the rules of the game mid-contract.
Removing students from the housing market, at least for their first year, is a concrete way to remedy the issue. Having an alternative to brutalist prison look-alikes at Loyola and a beautiful but expensive former nunnery would be a welcome addition for future first-years weighing their housing options. With room for a little over 900 students, the residences at Concordia are inaccessible to much of the 36,000-strong undergraduate student body. Aside from the issue of availability, the rental cost is also a hurdle, compounded by the low-quality, high-cost meal plan imposed on students living in residence to the benefit of a massive multinational corporation.
If all goes to plan, in three years a new building will be erected in the inner city, offering up to 150 rooms with stabilized rent that won’t succumb to the spikes of the wider rental market. According to VP Academic and Advocacy Terry Wilkings, this is possible due to a loan from the CSU that will eventually repay itself, allowing for more housing projects in the future. By taking some students out of the rental market, this housing co-op would also reduce students’ unwitting contribution to gentrification.
Two or more students renting an apartment together can often (begrudgingly) afford to pay more than a single parent or young family; landlords often take advantage of that, charging higher rent in neighbourhoods that appeal to students. Students having less of a reason to search for cheap rent elsewhere in the city will help to stop the displacement of long-time residents and families in gentrifying areas.
The CSU’s student space fund has accrued over $12 million and that money has sat dormant over the years as there has previously been little agreement on how to spend the funds. Approving the use of a portion of the fund on a housing co-op is a no-brainer.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
Opinions
Editorial: ASFA’s Last Walk of Shame
The Link
Special Issue
A Word From HOJO on Lease Deposits
Jamie Robinson
News
Housing Fair Discusses Resisting Gentrification
Zachary Goldberg-Mota
News
Hive Café Prices to Increase
Vince Morello
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
