
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
CSU By-Election Results
News by Jonathan Caragay-Cook — Published December 2, 2014 | Updated December 2, 2014 | Comments
Follow @Hiimbiracial
The CSU will move forward with new projects next year, notably, a daycare centre and new student housing. UTILE has presented plans for student housing to the CSU. Photo Shaun Michaud
Unlike the BDS issue, some referendum questions did receive a count and tally after the Concordia Student Union’s by-election last week. Notably, the referenda for creating new student housing, a daycare centre and the approval for the CSU to pay back the Hive Café Solidarity Cooperative start up loan through a specific fund all passed.
“I think we have a strong mandate to continue with both these projects,” CSU VP Academic and Advocacy Terry Wilkings said. “[We] definitely need to prioritize communicating with students more details about [these projects] going forward.”
The referendum question asking for student approval to consider new student co-op housing initiatives as a student space project had the highest success rate, with 1598 “Yes” votes and 182 “No” votes. The Unité de travail pour l’implantation de logement étudiant (UTILE) already presented its work on student housing co-ops to the CSU.
“Seeing the support for the student housing received the highest amounts of ‘Yes’” votes was really exciting,” Wilkings said. “I think that we’re starting to see a broader awareness of the difficulty students face in the tenant market.”
A question which would give the CSU a mandate to pursue an on-campus daycare centre also saw a high success rate, with 1551 students voting “Yes” and 236 voting “No.” Wilkings said that the next step in the project is to negotiate with the university for space.
“The scale of the service will be dependent on the space we procure,” Wilkings added. “We would have a more comprehensive understanding of the financial commitments of the daycare in terms of annual operating costs and things like that.”
Both the daycare and student housing questions received the same amount of abstentions—613—but Wilkings said this was a “coincidence.” When final proposals are drawn up to begin construction on a facility, students will vote on a new ballot for further approval.
Approval to loan money from the Student Space, Accessible Education and Legal Contingency Fund (SSAELC) to pay back the Hive Café Co-op’s startup costs also passed with 952 “Yes” votes to 448 “No” votes. The CSU now has $102,536.79 to repay the fees.
“The student support with the Hive was clearly established with the general elections in the previous year,” Wilkings said. “It was something we received a clear indication from students to prioritize.”
The only referendum question that didn’t pass was the International and Ethnic Association Council asking to double its fee-levy, with 708 “Yes” votes and 761 “No” votes. However, the IEAC did receive approval to separate from the Concordia Student Union. The association said that it’s able to represent more clubs as an autonomous organization.
The Concordia’s Model United Nations club received student approval to become a fee-levy group with seven cents per credit, and students also supported the referendum question for the CSU to take an official stance against austerity.
The remaining referendum question, asking for approval to support the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel, has yet to be counted. Wilkings said that campaigning increased for this by-election because of the controversial referendum on the ballot.
“I don’t want to say whether that necessarily led to this higher turnout, but I definitely think there was more campaigning in this by-election than any by-election in the recent past,” Wilkings said.
Students elected new CSU Council members as well. Jason Poirier Lavoie is the new representative for Arts and Science. Scott Carr, Maylen Cytryn and Taimur Tanoli are the new members of the JMSB Council. Faddy Kamel now represents the ENCS and Marie Briere de la Hossayere is part of the Independent Student Council.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Preliminary CSU By-Election Results: Daycare, Student Housing, Anti-Austerity Referenda Pass
Opinions
Editorial: We Need Electoral Reform at the CSU
The Link
News
Will the BDS Ballots Ever Be Counted?
Jonathan Caragay-Cook
News
ENCS Council Candidate Kyle Arseneau Disqualified From CSU Elections
Jayde Norström
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
