
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Room and Board Students Can Afford
CSU Invites Development Organization to Present Student Housing Studies to Council
News by Michelle Pucci — Published November 18, 2014 | Updated November 18, 2014 | Comments
Follow @michellempucci
Members of the Concordia Student Union gathered to discuss UTILE among other topics.  Photo Shaun Michaud.
Finding decent housing as a student is the hardest part about settling into a new city. How much should students be paying? Which areas are best? What are tenant rights in Montreal?
At the request of the Concordia Student Union, L’Unité de travail pour l’implantation de logement étudiant (UTILE) presented its research on the student housing market in Montreal. The group is a not-for-profit development organization working with student unions in Montreal and at the Université de Laval in Quebec City to eliminate unfair treatment of student tenants.
The median rent paid by students from outside Quebec living in the city is $605 per room with services, while the equivalent for students from the province is $495. University residences in Montreal can only house five per cent of students, while for-profit student housing, like Varcity515, charge between $650 and $1300 per bed.
Laurent Levesque, Gabriel Filion and Laurent Deslauriers, urban planning students at UQÀM, Université de Montréal and McGill University, presented UTILE’s month-long study at last week’s CSU council meeting. Their goal is to develop affordable student housing. They also provided information on student housing to prevent students from getting taken advantage of by landlords by not knowing their rights.
UTILE and the CSU cooperated on the market study along with Concordia’s Off-Campus Housing and Job Bank (HoJo).
“It showed that student tenant rights aren’t being respected and there’s a lot of exploitation and abuse in the tenant market in general, especially against international students or students that are from out of province,” said Terry Wilkings, the CSU’s VP Academics and Advocacy, of the group’s findings.
According to UTILE’s research, students will often pay higher rents than other locals and families. Out-of-town students are sometimes asked for illegal deposits, personal and financial information and documents from landlords. Landlords don’t have the right to ask for passport information or social insurance numbers. Findings also showed that a higher proportion of students live in inadequate housing conditions in comparison to non-students.
“Proportionally they face issues in the greater sense, probably due to the language barrier and also the choice of district where they live,” Wilkings said. International students tend to live closer to the university, whereas individuals that grew up in Montreal know of non-central neighbourhoods to live in.
Wilkings says the end goal is to remove students from the tenant market. He’s looking forward to working with UTILE on its pilot project, converting old buildings, and financing new constructions.
In the CSU’s upcoming by-election, one of the referendum questions asks students to let the CSU treat student housing as a student space initiative. This would mean any future investment would come from the Student Space, Accessible Education and Legal Contingency fund—a fund that’s already under pressure to pay off The Hive Café Co-op.
“In my opinion, I absolutely see a link between student housing and student space,” Wilkings said.
UTILE is already working on a pilot project in the South-West borough that should create 140 bedrooms for students. The total cost of the project is expected to be $9 million, and the group received $2 million from the Quebec government last year. It’s looking to the city, student groups, the provincial government and any interested investors to support future developments.
“Our first project comes with state money,” said Levesque. “We can’t say that will always be the case.”
But until the referendum passes the CSU isn’t talking digits, saying there are various ways it could invest—either by equity, which will give the union a level of ownership, or loans that can be reimbursed with interest. Any assets made from one project could also be used to build more, says Wilkings.
“We’re a student city and we have to recognize that—in terms of our housing policies.”
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
Special Issue
A Word From HOJO on Lease Deposits
Jamie Robinson
News
John Molson Accounting Society to Host First Tax Clinic at Concordia
Vince Morello
News
CSU Executives Scolded for Taking Gifts, Issued Formal Warnings
Franca G. Mignacca
Opinions
Editorial: ASFA’s Last Walk of Shame
The Link
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
