
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Fixing a Financial Fiasco
CUSACorp Aims to be Auditable
News by Adam Kovac — Published September 6, 2011 | Comments
Follow @adamjkovac
Photo Pierre Chauvin
Called “un-auditable” by an accounting firm due to shoddy inventory-keeping practices, big changes are coming to CUSACorp, the for-profit wing of the Concordia Student Union.
“We’re on draft three [of the new bylaws] now, and we’ve sent it to our lawyer to look over,” said CSU VP Advocacy Morgan Pudwell, who sits on the CUSACorp Board of Directors.
In September 2010, a report from accounting and consulting firm Deloitte, who acts as the CSU’s auditor, stated that “[CUSACorp] derives revenue from cash sales, the completeness of which is not susceptible of satisfactory audit verification.”
According to CSU President Lex Gill, the nebulous status of CUSACorp’s finances can be traced back to Reggie’s. The campus bar, which accounts for a large portion of CUSACorp’s income, is a cash business—that is, a business that deals primarily in cash payments, which are much less trackable than debit or credit card payments—and has suffered from a lack of proper inventory and Point of Sale systems, including a way to control how much alcohol is poured into a drink, or a way to monitor drinks given away for free.
“We’re putting in a liquor control system,” said Gill in an interview with The Link in August. “Shots are measured, pints are measured. This will go a long way towards getting us audited. We think we will be auditable by the end of the year.”
Another problem that has plagued CUSACorp is abuses of power by members of its Board of Directors. Pudwell noted that in the past, it was not uncommon for members of the Board to go behind the bar and start serving up free drinks.
“That was sometimes a problem, because it took away tip opportunities for the staff that have been working there regularly,” said Pudwell. “The Board, as it should be, is about choosing the direction for the company and not about the day-to-day operations and getting behind the bar.”
Along with the new systems in place at Reggie’s and the changes to the Board’s power, the Board that controls CUSACorp is also facing significant structural changes, beginning with the removal of the position of president.
“It’s a huge restructuring,” said Pudwell. “The Board looks like it will be seven people, [made up of] five students and no more than three CSU executives. [There will also be] two external members, people from the community like lawyers or accountants, that will be able to add a professional sort of tone and insight into how to run a business properly, and allow for continuity.”
Pudwell also explained that the VP Finance of the CSU, a position currently held by Jordan Lindsay, will be required to serve as the Treasurer of CUSACorp and will have to give regular reports to the CSU Council, the sole shareholder of the corporation.
Changes may also be coming to other CUSACorp-controlled areas, such as the Java U in the mezzanine of the Hall Building. Pudwell expressed a desire to have CUSACorp implement new ethical and sustainable standards in all its operations, which could include actions such as negotiating a bottled water ban in the café when its contract comes up for renewal. The new systems at Reggie’s may also expand to the as-yet unopened Hive Café.
This article originally appeared in The Link Volume 32, Issue 02, published September 6, 2011.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
A Mountain of Debt
Sarah Moore
News
Of Dollars and Sense
Your Concordia Candidate Pushes for More Financial Transparency
Simon Liem
Opinions
Austerity: Not an Obligation, Not a Necessity
Gus Minter and Aloyse Muller
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
