
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Reggie’s Closed Indefinitely
CSU Talks With Admin Halt Renovation Plans
News by Andrew Brennan — Published January 14, 2014 | Updated January 14, 2014 | Comments
Follow @brennamen
Photo Erin Sparks
Despite originally planning to reopen in January, Concordia’s campus bar will remain closed indefinitely.
Construction has yet to begin inside Reggie’s, Concordia’s student-run bar in the Hall Building mezzanine, while the university and the Concordia Student Union continue to discuss what infrastructure inside the space needs fixing, according to a report to CSU council by CUSAcorp, the CSU’s for-profit arm.
Following the bar’s closure in October, the renovation project managers were told by two separate contracting companies of maintenance and infrastructure problems, according to the report, with CUSAcorp chairperson James Tyler Vaccaro later elaborating the issues were mostly plumbing-related.
“According to the current lease agreement these aspects fall under the legal obligation of the university to ensure the upkeep and repair,” stated the press release, released before the CSU’s regular council meeting last week. “In light of this clause, the [CUSAcorp Board of Directors] decided to approach the university to discuss our concerns with the state of the Reggie’s space, and to begin the process of working together on this project going forward.”
CUSAcorp began discussions with the university at a meeting Dec. 6, where the Board presented to Concordia administrators their plans for the bar and surrounding space leased by the university to the CSU and managed by CUSAcorp.
Concordia’s Facilities Management was tasked with providing their own assessment of the infrastructure repairs needed, which only included a minor issue of pipes being wrapped in insulation.
“From what we have been told by the contractors and project managers, as well as after having reviewed the space, in our estimation this is nowhere near the full extent of the space’s current issues,” the report continued.
Vaccaro, also the CSU VP Clubs and Internal Affairs, added in an interview with The Link that a third party at the behest of CUSAcorp will offer an independent evaluation to both the Board and the university.
Vaccaro says the university welcomed the independent party performing its own inspection of the bar’s infrastructure. An agent of Facilities Management was unable to be reached for comment by press time.
“If we all come to the table I think we can work together to create something great,” said Vaccaro.
“I get the question everyday of when is Reggie’s reopening; I’ve been getting it since before we even closed it. If there’s anyone who would rather have Reggie’s open and up and running today, [that person] would be me,” he continued.
That being said, Vaccaro adds the CSU wants to “make sure we’re doing it right,” even if that means Reggie’s won’t reopen anytime soon.
“We don’t want to rush through because if you’re rushing through the process just to get something open again, [it would be] doing a disservice to students in the long run,” he said.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
#CSU12 Debate
Laura Beeston
News
Highlights From The Feb. 8 CSU Council Meeting
Julian Ward
News
Students Discuss Next Steps to Making New Mezz Café a Reality
Colin Harris
News
Reggie’s to Close for Three Months
Andrew Brennan
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
