Contact l Sitemap
War & Disaster Profiteering
Drone Inc.: Marketing the Illusion of Precision Killing
CorpWatch
August 7th, 2017
Drone Inc.: Marketing the Illusion of Precision Killing, reveals the contractors and technology behind the targeted killing machinery of the U.S. military and intelligence agencies, demonstrating how critical errors and assumptions in this remotely controlled war has resulted in the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands, of innocent civilians.
Help keep our site ad-free!
Latest Articles
Drone, Inc. - Acknowledgements
Drone, Inc. - Index
Drone, Inc. - Whistleblowers
Drone, Inc. - DOT&E
Drone, Inc. - NEXT STEPS
Drone, Inc. - CONCLUSION: The Failure of Remote Control
Drone, Inc. - L. No Bid Deals & Revolving  Doors
Drone, Inc. - K. Embedded in the Kill Chain
Drone, Inc. - THE CONTRACTORS
Drone, Inc. - J. Distributed Common Ground System
Drone, Inc. - I. Social Network Analysis
Drone, Inc. - H. Cross Sensor Cueing
Drone, Inc. - G. Geolocation
Drone, Inc. - F.  Ground Moving Target Indicator
Drone, Inc. - SOFTWARE: Algorithms 101
Drone, Inc. - E: Relaying The Data
Drone, Inc. - D. Phone Tracking
Drone, Inc. - C. Synthetic Aperture Radar
Drone, Inc. - B. Thermal & Infra Red Imaging
Drone, Inc. - A. Full Motion Video
Drone, Inc. - HARDWARE: Watching from Above
Drone, Inc. - The Dawn of the Networked Drone
Drone Inc.: Marketing the Illusion of Precision Killing
test
Drone, Inc. FAQ
Drone, Inc. - Question the Numbers
Bangladeshi Government Cracks Down On Garment Workers Sweatshop Wage Protests
Takata Fined $1 Billion For Hiding Information on Exploding Car Airbags
Publish, Punish, and Pardon: Nine National Security Changes Obama Should Make Before He Leaves Office
Billionaires & Big Business Line Up To Help U.S. President Elect-Donald Trump
Goodhope Asia Accused Of Land Grabbing In West Papua For Palm Oil
Robertson Winery Accused Of Slavery-Like Practices In South Africa
Eli Lilly Raised U.S. Prices Of Diabetes Drug 700 Percent Over 20 Years
Swiss Bank UBS May Be Suspended From Doing Business In Hong Kong
AT&T Developed Secret Program To Help U.S. Police Mine Client Phone Records
Native Tribes Protest Energy Transfer Partners North Dakota Oil Pipeline
Coke and McDonalds Host Carnival of Junk Food Marketing At Rio Olympics
Six Novartis Executives Charged In Illegal Drug Rebate Scheme In South Korea
General Atomics Funded U.S. Think Tank That Promoted Increased Drone Exports
Cyrela, Rio Olympic Construction Contractor, Accused Of Mistreating Workers
Broadspectrum 'Violating' Human Rights At Australian Offshore Detention Centers
Panama Papers Leak Reveals Safari Companies In Africa Use Tax Havens
Greece Raids UBS Executive's Home In Effort To Uncover Swiss Tax Evasion
Cairn Energy Demands India Pay $5.6 Billion Or Drop Back Tax Claim
Gilead Avoided $10 Billion In Taxes On Over Priced Hepatitis C Drugs
Uruguay Defeats Philip Morris In Major Win For Anti-Smoking Advocates
Ugandan Villagers Say Chinese Phosphate Mine Cheated Them Over Land Titles
Barclays Traders Jailed In Global Interest Rate Setting Scandal But Not Executives
Formosa Plastics Admits Vietnam Steel Plant Caused Massive Fish Kill
New Violation Tracker Tool Helps Public Track U.S. Corporate Misconduct
East European Shoe Factories Often Pay Below Minimum Wage, Says New Report
Citadel's Private Stock Market Platform Under Investigation
Credit Suisse Condemned For Secret Military Loans To Mozambique
DESA Employees Arrested In Honduras For Murder Of Activist Berta Cáceres
Zupta Scandal Causes South African Government To Intervene To Save Indian Investor
More »
send a blank message to corp-watchers-subscribe@igc.topica.com
About CorpWatch
History & Mission
Using This Site
Staff & Board
Intern Opportunities
Feedback
Corrections Policy
Connect With Us!
Issue Library
Consumerism & Commercialism
Corruption
Environment
Executive Compensation
Globalization
Health
Human Rights
Labor
Money & Politics
Privatization
Regulation
Trade Justice
World Financial Institutions
Industries
Private Security
Chemicals
Construction
Energy
Food and Agriculture
Financial Services, Insurance and Banking
Manufacturing
Media & Entertainment
Natural Resources
Pharmaceuticals
Retail & Mega-Stores
Technology & Telecommunications
Tobacco
Tourism & Real Estate
Transportation
War & Disaster Profiteering
Research Tools
Introduction
Research Guide
War & Disaster Profiteering
Drone, Inc. FAQ
August 6th, 2017
Drone, Inc. is a guide to the contractors and the technologies used in targeted killing by remotely piloted aircraft operated by the U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. military.
Manufacturing
Bangladeshi Government Cracks Down On Garment Workers Sweatshop Wage Protests
Pratap Chatterjee
January 25th, 2017
As many as 3,500 Bangladeshi workers are reported to have been suspended or fired for taking part in protests against sweatshop wages at garment factories on the outskirts of Dhaka over the last six weeks. Dozens have been thrown in jail amid a major police crackdown on the organizers.
Photo: New York University. Used under Creative Commons license
Manufacturing
Takata Fined $1 Billion For Hiding Information on Exploding Car Airbags
Kavya Padmanabhan
January 20th, 2017
Takata, the Japanese auto parts maker, will pay a $1 billion fine to the U.S. government after pleading guilty to hiding information about the likelihood that the company’s car air bags could accidentally explode. Takata air bags have been linked to at least 17 deaths around the world.
Photo: Alexauto321. Used under Creative Commons license.
War & Disaster Profiteering
Publish, Punish, and Pardon: Nine National Security Changes Obama Should Make Before He Leaves Office
Pratap Chatterjee
December 6th, 2016
Nine recommendations for action by President Obama to reverse his deadly legacy of drone warfare, surveillance and entrapment, including revealing flawed government contracts with companies like AT&T & Yahoo.
Drone analysts. Photo: U.S. Air Force.
Money & Politics
Billionaires & Big Business Line Up To Help U.S. President Elect-Donald Trump
Pratap Chatterjee
November 14th, 2016
Billionaire businessmen and lobbyists are lining up to help Donald Trump after his victory in the U.S. presidential election. Trump appears to be welcoming them with open arms, despite his claim to bring change to Washington DC and get rid of special interests.
Photo: Gage Skidmore. Used under Creative Commons license.
Food and Agriculture
Goodhope Asia Accused Of Land Grabbing In West Papua For Palm Oil
Pratap Chatterjee
November 7th, 2016
The Yerisiam Gua indigenous community of West Papua filed a complaint six months ago against a Sri Lankan owned conglomerate for taking over their land to create a palm oil plantation. To this day, the industry body charged with oversight has yet to formally respond to their concerns.
Flooding in Nabire as a result of logging. Photo courtesy of Indonesia’s National Disaster Management Agency
Food and Agriculture
Robertson Winery Accused Of Slavery-Like Practices In South Africa
Richard Smallteacher
November 4th, 2016
"Bitter Grapes—Slavery in the Vineyards," a new television documentary made by Danish journalist Tom Heinemann, alleges that many South African wineries pay their workers less than the legal minimum wage; discourages them from unionizing; and exposes them to toxic pesticides. Top of the list is Robertson's Winery.
Still image from Bitter Harvest documentary.
Pharmaceuticals
Eli Lilly Raised U.S. Prices Of Diabetes Drug 700 Percent Over 20 Years
Pratap Chatterjee
November 2nd, 2016
Eli Lilly, an Indianapolis based company, that has sold insulin products to diabetes patients since 1921, has quietly raised some U.S. prices 700 percent in the last 20 years by marketing so-called improved versions to consumers. Novo Nordisk, a Danish company, has also profited handsomely from this practice.
Photo: rachellynnae©. Used under Creative Commons license.
Past Features »   
Mail: P.O. Box 29198, San Francisco, CA 94129, USA | Tel: +1-415-226-6226
Design by Tumis.com ï » powered by radicalDESIGNS   
