
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Student Congress Says Yes to Sustainability, No to Dance Majors
Second Congressional Gathering of Student Associations Sees Intense Debates
News by Jonathan Caragay-Cook — Published November 25, 2014 | Updated November 25, 2014 | Comments
Follow @Hiimbiracial
Representatives from faculty and department associations gathered for the second ever student congress.  Brandon Johnston
A motion to integrate a “sustainability component” into all programs passed during the second session of the Concordia Student Congress on Thursday.
Article last updated Thursday, 27 at 1:46 p.m.
This was one of seven motions that members of various faculty and department associations, along with the Concordia Student Union, debated, amended and voted on to demonstrate student solidarity.
Notably, a motion to allow free access to Le Gym for contemporary dance majors was not passed.
In each faculty at Concordia University, less than 10 per cent of courses implement sustainability into their curriculum, according to Michael Banks of the Engineering and Computer Science Association.
“There are very few opportunities for students to learn about sustainability,” Banks said. “[Sustainability] often also belongs to specializations, so very few students take these courses.”
For his own faculty of engineering, Banks added that 19 courses contain sustainability content while approximately 230 do not. In regards to specific faculties offering courses which incorporate themes of sustainability, he explained that other faculties should mimic fine arts, where students already incorporate energy efficiency and resource consumption into their design projects. Originally, Banks argued for the component to be implemented into introductory courses.
“This would provide students with more knowledge to create value in a world with limited resources and declining ecosystems,” Banks said. “With 200-level classes, we hope to give students a mindset that they can hopefully carry on in their future education.
“This motion is to tell faculty and departments that students are actually interested in learning about sustainability.”
After dissent and scrutiny of the wording of a second amendment to the original motion from a few groups, the amended motion passed with 90 per cent of those in attendance in favour—the threshold required for any motion to be passed at the Congress.
“We want Concordia graduates to be capable of building a better world,” Banks said.
A motion that garnered similar debate, yet did not pass, was one brought forward by the Dance Student Association. Maria Paula Cano, a contemporary dance major, asked for student support to allow 70 students from her program free access to Le Gym on campus. It ended with a vote of nine in favour with six against, which did not meet the 90 per cent threshold.
“We’re working academically to become critical [thinkers], but we are also training our bodies to keep up with our [demanding] classes and choreography,” Paula Cano said. “We need to train our body more specifically, and in class, we don’t have time.”
Currently, the fee to have access to Le Gym is $70 per semester for new Concordia students and $65 per semester for returning ones. Paula Cano added that classes focus on “musicality and rhythm” of dances more than on strengthening specific muscles. Technically the studios located inside Le Gym belong to the program, but contemporary dance majors often share time with all gym members.
“Students in other majors are offered free access to libraries [and] student space, while the contemporary dance major [has] nothing,” Paula Cano continued. “Having free access to the gym is an injury-prevention point.
“It’s a matter of safety for us,” she concluded.
The motion failed largely because of the accepted notion that students in most programs have to pay extra fees toward services and facilities that will advance their career.
“The body is our major,” Paula Cano said in response to comments that all students have extra fees. “It’s not an extracurricular thing that we’re doing to be healthy or have fun—it’s just for performing better. We too have other fees.”
The Student Congress passed a motion allowing engineers to take minors—which they currently aren’t allowed to. Emma Saboureau, the president of the Engineering and Computer Science Association, said there is “no reason” for forbidding students in the engineering program of 120 credits to pursue a minor if they so choose.
The other motions passed by the Congress included a plan for Concordia’s new strategic direction process, increasing the term limits of student senators and formal opposition toward unpaid internships.
Correction: The original article said that the sustainability component would be implemented into 200-level courses. The final amended motion stated that it would be incorporated into all programs, regardless of course level. In addition, the congress passed a motion acknowledging that contemporary dance majors’ collective safety is of the upmost priority and action is required. The Link regrets the error.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Sustainability: A “Unicorn of Hope”
Noelle Didierjean
Special Issue
A Mealtime Epic
Jonathan Caragay-Cook
Fringe Arts
RageDancing is all the Rage
Fawn Parker
Letters
Why Community Matters
Mark Underwood
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
