#BringBissanHome Concordia Community Letter
UPDATE:
After many months and considerable public pressure, the Canadian government finally responded to calls to bring Bissan Eid home, but their offer of support arrived too late in Bissan’s pregnancy. As such, Bissan was forced to give birth in Gaza - far away from her immediate family and from the medical facilities that she should have been able to access in Montreal.
On May 11th, Bissan gave birth to Sarah - a healthy, beautiful baby girl. Despite the difficult circumstances faced by Bissan and by medical workers in Gaza due to the Israeli military siege, local healthcare workers struggled to support Bissan to the best of their abilities and Sarah was born safely.
We are still calling on the Canadian government to take action and follow through on their responsibilities to support Bissan and Sarah. More specifically, we ask that they expedite the processing of Sarah’s citizenship papers in a timely fashion. We also demand that they continue to pressure the Israeli government to ensure that exit permits are issued and safe passage is ensured for Bissan and Sarah as soon as they are ready to travel in early June.
------------------
Please fill out your information below if you would like to be included as a signatory on the following letter from the Concordia community regarding Bissan Eid's inability to return to Canada:
"Concordia community calls on Justin Trudeau to #BringBissanHome
We, the undersigned faculty, staff, and students at Concordia University are deeply concerned about the well-being of Bissan Eid, a Concordia graduate student who has been prevented from leaving the Palestinian territory of Gaza.
Bissan, a Canadian citizen since 2005, traveled to Gaza to get married and to visit her aging grandparents in June 2016. She has been trying to return home to Canada since December 2016, but she has been prevented from leaving due to the slow processing of her exit visa by the Israeli authorities. Bissan is having a high-risk pregnancy and is expected to give birth in May, and needs medical attention in Canada.
Furthermore, Bissan is pursuing a masters in civil engineering at Concordia and was unable to enroll in the winter semester as she is blocked from leaving Gaza.
We are calling on Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the Canadian government to secure an exit visa from the Israeli government for Bissan."
* Required
Full Name *
Your answer
Department (answer "N/A" if not applicable) *
Your answer
Are you a..... *
Student
Faculty Member
Staff Member
Alumnus
Member of the Administration
Required
If you are an alumnus, please enter your year of graduation.
Your answer
Additional comments (optional)
Your answer
If you would like to receive updates on the #BringBissanHome campaign, please enter your email address (optional)
Your answer
Submit
Never submit passwords through Google Forms.
This content is neither created nor endorsed by Google. Report Abuse - Terms of Service - Additional Terms
 Forms
 
 
