Search the print archives
This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues, clients or customers, or inquire about permissions/licensing, please go to: www.TorontoStarReprints.com
News
Canada
Family of pregnant Canadian trapped in Gaza asks Ottawa to help her return home
The woman from Montreal’s south thought she had every reason to believe she’d be back in Canada last December. Now, her family is asking Ottawa to help persuade Israel to speed up the visa process.
The father of Bissan Eid, who is eight months pregnant and trapped in Gaza, is imploring the federal government to lobby Israel to help her get home. Hadi Eid says his daughter Bissan's pregnancy is high-risk and she needs medical attention that can't be provided in the territory.  (THE CANADIAN PRESS)  
By Sidhartha BanerjeeThe Canadian Press
Thu., April 13, 2017
MONTREAL—A Canadian woman who is eight months pregnant and stuck in Gaza as she tries to get an exit visa says she’s just trying to stay positive.
“Since I’ve known I was pregnant, I’ve wanted to go back to Canada and give birth there,” Bissan Eid, 24, said in a telephone interview Thursday. “It’s safer for my baby and myself.
“I’m trying everything possible, my dad is trying everything possible. I’m trying to think positive.”
Eid, who says she’s unable to walk or stand for long periods, thought she had every reason to believe she’d be back in Canada last December in time to resume her studies at Concordia University.
Instead, the woman from Montreal’s south shore finds herself still trapped in Gaza and unable to get the exit permit from Israel.
Article Continued Below
“I thought since I’m Canadian that it would be easier,” Eid said, adding nobody has explained to her why she can’t obtain the visa.
Eid, a Canadian citizen since 2005, said she went to visit grandparents and get married in June 2016. It was her first extended trip after a 2014 visit was cut short due to war.
Supporters have launched a social media campaign at Concordia, where Eid earned an undergraduate degree and is working toward a master’s degree in civil engineering.
Her father, Hadi Eid, told reporters Thursday at the university’s school of community and public affairs he wants Ottawa to help persuade Israel to speed up the visa process.
“It’s not easy for us because we talk with Bissan every day, we are worried about her, we are worried something will happen to her in Gaza,” said Eid, a statistician for the Quebec government.
Her family say they’ve spoken to their local MP and sought the help of Canadian officials at the embassy in Tel Aviv, but to no avail.
“If Canada can arrange something for her, she can go out from Gaza by the help of the Canadian Embassy,” Eid said.
A spokesman for Global Affairs Canada said the department is aware of reports that a Canadian citizen is seeking help to depart Gaza.
“Consular officials stand ready to assist and provide updated information on how to leave the region,” John Babcock said in an email.
The department has advised against all travel to the Gaza Strip due to ongoing hostilities between Israel and Hamas — which controls the area.
The advisory also says the border crossings with Egypt and Israel frequently close unexpectedly and holding valid entry and exit permits doesn’t help in those instances.
Read more about:
Israel
Delivered dailyThe Morning Headlines Newsletter
Subscribe
The Toronto Star and thestar.com, each property of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited, One Yonge Street, 4th Floor, Toronto, ON, M5E 1E6. You can unsubscribe at any time. Please contact us or see our privacy policy for more information.
More from the Toronto Star & Partners
LOADING
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOADING
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors. To order copies of Toronto Star articles, please go to: www.TorontoStarReprints.com
6°
Close
Home
Latest News
GTA
Sports
Life
Travel: Travel Smart: Check cheap flight fine print
Saving money on a cheap flight means having more to spend at the destination, but is it worth enduring cramped quarters with zero perks and no guarantees?
News
GTA
City Hall
Queen’s Park
Canada
World
Investigations
Crime
Business
Economy
Personal Finance
Real Estate
Your Toronto
Schools
The Fixer
Life
Fashion & Style
Food & Wine
Health & Wellness
Homes
Parent
Technology
Travel
Sports
Amateur
Baseball
Basketball
Blue Jays
Curling
Football
Golf
Hockey
Lacrosse
Leafs
Raptors
Soccer
Tennis
Opinion
Star Columnists
Contributors
Corrections
Editorials
Editorial Cartoon
Public Editor
Readers' Letters
Entertainment
Books
Movies
Music
Stage
Television
Visual Arts
Diversions
Horoscopes
Crosswords
Sudoku
Comics
Wheels.ca
Special Features
Obituaries
Classifieds
TV Listings
Hot Topics:
The Roof Over Your Head
Paradise Papers
Star Projects
Book Reviews
Trust
#StarWeather
Follow us:
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Google+
Instagram
RSS
Manage Newsletters Site Map
About
Contact Us
Feedback
thestar.com
Feedback
Site Map
Newsletters
Insurance Hotline
New in Homes
Star Store
StarAuctions
Corrections
Behavioural Targeting
Today's News
Flyers
CanadaStays
Contests
Toronto Star Newspaper Ltd.
About
Atkinson Principles
Statement of Principles
Subscribe
Manage My Subscription
Contact Us
Contact Webmaster
FAQ
News Releases
Star Internships
Careers @ the Star
Star Advisers
Star ePaper Edition
Reprint and License
Advertising
Advertise with Us
Advertising Terms
Special Features
Initiatives
Santa Claus Fund
Fresh Air Fund
Speakers Bureau
Classroom Connection
Toronto Star Archives
Report on Community Giving
© Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996 - 2017
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
The Toronto Star and thestar.com, each property of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited, One Yonge Street, 4th floor, Toronto, ON, M5E 1E6
