CBC.ca
MENU
TV
Radio
News
Sports
Music
Life
Arts
Canada 2017
Local
More
Watch
Listen
Log in
SEARCH
British Columbia
Kamloops
Calgary
Edmonton
Saskatchewan
Saskatoon
Manitoba
Thunder Bay
Sudbury
Windsor
London
Kitchener-Waterloo
Hamilton
Toronto
Ottawa
Montreal
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Nova Scotia
Newfoundland & Labrador
North
Kids
Documentaries
Comedy
Books
Parents
Indigenous
Digital Archives
Podcasts
Games
Contests
Site Map
CBC Member
CBC User
You currently have:
0 Likes
0 Comments
Subscriptions
Go to the Subscriptions Centre to manage your:
CBC Newsletters
Daily Digests
Breaking Alerts
Log Out
Log out of your CBC account.
My Profile
My Subscriptions
Log Out
Montreal
LIVE Montreal More Streams
Radio One
Listen Live
CBC News Canada
CBC News Navigation
Home
Opinion
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Entertainment
Technology & Science
Video
Canada
Montreal
Family of pregnant Canadian stuck in Gaza implores Ottawa to help with exit docs
Bissan Eid, 8 months pregnant, was hoping to be back in Canada in December
The Canadian Press
Posted: Apr 13, 2017 8:44 PM ET Last Updated: Apr 13, 2017 9:21 PM ET
Bissan Eid, seen in this undated family handout photo, is eight months pregnant and trapped in Gaza. Her family is imploring the federal government to lobby Israel to help her get home. (The Canadian Press)
Related Stories
Gaza power outages spark rare protest
Hamas names shadowy militant as new leader in Gaza
A Canadian woman who is eight months pregnant and stuck in Gaza as she tries to get an exit visa says she's just
trying to stay positive.
"Since I've known I was pregnant, I've wanted to go back to Canada and give birth there," Bissan Eid, 24, said in a telephone interview Thursday. "It's safer for my baby and myself.
"I'm trying everything possible, my dad is trying everything possible. I'm trying to think positive."
Eid, who says she's unable to walk or stand for long periods, thought she had every reason to believe she'd be back in Montreal last December in time to resume her studies at Concordia University.
Instead, the woman from Montreal's south shore finds herself still trapped in Gaza and unable to get the exit permit from Israel.
"I thought since I'm Canadian that it would be easier," Eid said, adding nobody has explained to her why she can't obtain the visa.
'We are worried about her'
Eid, a Canadian citizen since 2005, said she went to visit grandparents and get married in June 2016. It was her first extended trip after a 2014 visit was cut short due to war.
Supporters have launched a social media campaign at Concordia, where Eid earned an undergraduate degree and is working toward a master's degree in civil engineering.
Her father, Hadi Eid, told reporters Thursday at the university's school of community and public affairs that he wants Ottawa to help persuade Israel to speed up the visa process.
"It's not easy for us because we talk with Bissan every day, we are worried about her, we are worried something will happen to her in Gaza," said Eid, a statistician for the Quebec government.
Gaza power outages spark rare protest
Hamas names shadowy militant as new leader in Gaza
Her family members say they've spoken to their local MP and sought the help of Canadian officials at the embassy in Tel Aviv, but to no avail.
"If Canada can arrange something for her, she can go out from Gaza by the help of the Canadian Embassy," Eid said.
A spokesman for Global Affairs Canada said the department is aware of reports that a Canadian citizen is seeking help to leave Gaza.
"Consular officials stand ready to assist and provide updated information on how to leave the region," John Babcock said in an email.
The department has advised against all travel to the Gaza Strip due to ongoing hostilities between Israel and Hamas, which controls the area.
The advisory also says the border crossings with Egypt and Israel frequently close unexpectedly and holding valid entry and exit permits doesn't help in those instances.
© The Canadian Press, 2017
Report Typo or Error Send Feedback
Stay Connected with CBC News
Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter
Weather
Severe weather warnings or watches in effect for:
Montréal
Mostly Cloudy
-3°C
Québec
Mainly Clear
-11°C
Longueuil
Cloudy
-4°C
Mirabel
Mostly Cloudy
-7°C
Sherbrooke
Cloudy
-11°C
More Weather |
Latest Montreal News Headlines
Turcot Interchange work on schedule, but drivers face peak traffic diversions video
Projet Montréal plans to act quickly to repeal 'wrong-headed' pit bull ban
Randy Tshilumba appeals life sentence in stabbing death of grocery clerk
Little Burgundy's Husser poised to take up mantle of Canada's rap royalty
Tax cuts, cash for health care, education in Quebec's economic update
Gender parity but little diversity in Valérie Plante's executive committee
Quebec judge withdraws from case after comments about weight of sexual assault victim
Lawyers for Montreal couple accused of terrorism-related offences won't mount defence
Loblaws pitches upgraded loyalty program for $9.99 a month for premium perks read comments
'A cut to the most vulnerable': Day program for disabled adults drops older clients
Top News Headlines
Merkel down but not out after breakdown in coalition talks
Canada on alert as U.S. announces end to temporary resident status for Haitians video
MMIWG inquiry staff's top priority is to protect commissioners from criticism: leaked email
Astronomers unveil secrets of interstellar visitor
Giller Prize goes to Michael Redhill for Bellevue Square read comments audio
Most Viewed
Projet Montréal plans to act quickly to repeal 'wrong-headed' pit bull ban
Quebec judge withdraws from case after comments about weight of sexual assault victim
That time conservatives saved the planet from climate change
Gender parity but little diversity in Valérie Plante's executive committee
Little Burgundy's Husser poised to take up mantle of Canada's rap royalty
Tax cuts, cash for health care, education in Quebec's economic update
Turcot Interchange work on schedule, but drivers face peak traffic diversions
'A cut to the most vulnerable': Day program for disabled adults drops older clients
Ex-Liberal minister Tony Tomassi arrested in Montreal prostitution bust
Why are thousands of Haitians streaming into Canada from the U.S.?
Don't Miss
Video
'Anywhere but Haiti': Asylum seeker retraces his 15,000-km odyssey to Canada
'Goodbye, Mr. Amherst': Why a decorated British general was stripped of his Montreal street
Quebec's Antifa movement on rise in response to growth of far-right groups
EXPLAINER
How asylum seekers make refugee claims, and why they take so long
infographic
The steroidal growth of Montreal's festivals, in charts
Dieppe: 584 Fusiliers Mont-Royal went in, 125 got out
EXPLAINER
What refugee claimants receive from the government
Pride
The rise of Mado Lamotte, queen of Montreal's Gay Village
Montrealer sole resident of condo building after other units rented on Airbnb
The secret life of Alexandre Cazes, alleged dark web mastermind
Your guide to Montreal's free, family-friendly summer activities
Life in the dark: A blind woman's experience living undocumented in Montreal
Blog
CBC/QWF Writer-in-residence
INTERACTIVE
Tour Montreal's historic architecture, starting in the 1600s
Montreal Together
Your guide to Montreal's hidden Indigenous character
Explore CBC
CBC Home
TV
Radio
News
Sports
Music
Life
Arts
Kids
Local
Documentaries
Comedy
Books
Parents
Indigenous
Digital Archives
Games
Contests
Site Map
Stay Connected
Apps
RSS
Podcasts
Newsletters & Alerts
Services and Information
Corporate Info
Public Appearances
Commercial Services
Reuse & Permission
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
CBC Shop
Help
Contact Us
Jobs
Doing Business with Us
Renting Facilities
CBC
Radio-Canada
©2017 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved
Visitez Radio-Canada.ca
