
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Montreal Community Rallies to “Bring Bissan Home”
Multiple Events Planned in Support of Concordia Student Trapped in Gaza
News by Franca G. Mignacca — Published June 14, 2017 | Comments
Follow @@FrancaMignacca
Members of the Concordia and Montreal community gathered in solidarity with Bissan Eid June 8, for their first rally. Photo Brian Lapuz
It’s been months since Hadi Eid has seen his daughter, Bissan, and he has yet to hold his newborn granddaughter. Stuck in Gaza since December, Bissan Eid, a Concordia graduate student, had to give birth away from home and without medical supplies on May 11.
Members of the Concordia and Montreal community gathered in solidarity with her on Thursday June 8 for their first rally.
“Gaza is like a prison. Bissan is a hostage, and the Canadian government does nothing to help Bissan—to help a Canadian citizen,” Hadi said.
The Concordia Student Union organized Thursday’s rally with Tadamon, a Montreal collective that works in solidarity with “struggles for justice in the ‘Middle East’ and in diaspora communities in Montreal and beyond.” Attendees were encouraged to hold up signs and stickers, urging people to “Bring Bissan Home”. A station was also set up to sign postcards, in hopes of flooding Members of Parliament with them.
A second rally will be taking place June 15 at noon.
“It’s not enough anymore. It’s not enough for Alan Shepard, the president of this university, to let one of his students, to let one of his teachers, to let one of his community members to be stranded alone in Gaza,” said Sophia Sahrane, Research and Education Coordinator for the Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec.
Hadi was shocked and humbled to see various local organizations and dozens of students attend Thursday’s rally.
“When the Eid family contacted us about the Bissan situation, we wanted to address it because it’s a very local and community-based illustration of the siege on Gaza.” – Stefan Christoff
Bissan and Hadi were both aware that getting home from Gaza wouldn’t be easy, but they had estimated that it would take her a maximum of two months. According to Hadi, Bissan has been contacting the Canadian consulate since January, but has been left with nothing but empty promises.
Bissan had completed her first year in Concordia’s Civil Engineering Master’s program, and had plans of beginning her second when she was trapped in Gaza in December. She had travelled there to get married and to visit her grandparents. The student has dual-citizenship, but the Israeli government has only recognized her Palestinian citizenship.
Hadi doesn’t think the Concordia Administration has done as much as they could, and feels they should put more pressure on the Canadian Government.
Most speakers expressed the same frustrations with Concordia president Alan Shepard and the Trudeau administration, accusing both of not putting enough pressure on the Israeli government, and accusing the Canadian government of hypocrisy and “discriminatory” behavior.
“I’ve been talking to Dr. Alan Shepard and he’s reached out to his contact in the Canadian government to be able to do everything that’s in his power to do,” said Omar Riaz, CSU general coordinator. “We have sent numerous letters, postcards, to Chrystia Freeland, the minister of foreign affairs, our local MPs, we have tried to contact the press, make sure that people are aware of what’s taken place.”
Ishani Ghosh from the Centre for Gender Advocacy was also present to defend Bissan as a woman and a Canadian citizen.
“I don’t know if it’s necessarily because she’s a woman, but I think, as Sophia [Sahrane] mentioned, women are always the most vulnerable to colonial and state violence,” Ghosh explained.
She added that this situation should show Canadians that no one is immune to human rights violations.
“To create a system of citizenship which is inherently ethno-nationalist, to create a system of citizenship that requires people to jump through all these hoops to become citizens and then not even […] offer them protections that you would offer any other citizen that are standard fare in the international community,” she said.
Throughout the rally, people chanted “Viva viva Palestina” and “Free Palestine.”
When co-president of the Palestinian and Jewish Unity, Bruce Katz, addressed the crowd, he explained that he feels frustrated that a situation like this would not likely happen to him as a Jewish man in Israel, but that Bissan had to go through it.
“It’s as if [Israel wants] to suppress the notion that Palestinians can have double-citizenship. Look at the hypocrisy of it. It’s that they don’t want her to be able to leave Gaza on a Canadian document, although she is a Palestinian and as a Palestinian her roots are there—that’s the Indigenous people of Palestine,” he explained.
During his speech, a bystander began yelling at him from the street corner. Katz said he was glad that it happened.
He continued, “The Zionist who interrupted me gave me the opportunity to explain why the blockade of Gaza exists and why that is one factor why Bissan Eid is a hostage in Gaza.”
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Concordia Groups, the Dish Project Hold Zero Waste Week
Joseph Coppolino
Opinions
Editorial: ASFA’s Last Walk of Shame
The Link
News
John Molson Accounting Society to Host First Tax Clinic at Concordia
Vince Morello
Special Issue
A Word From HOJO on Lease Deposits
Jamie Robinson
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
