
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
Stop the Hike
Opinions by Samuel Miriello — Published November 8, 2016 | Comments
Graphic: Zoe Gelfant
Concordia University is looking to discreetly raise tuition for international students without consultation.
This tuition hike will cause irreversible damage to the diversity of Concordia’s student body and will make it even harder for disadvantaged students to graduate from the school.
This isn’t unprecedented. Back in 2008, Concordia attempted a similar measure when they raised international tuition fees after the government deregulated the tuition costs of six programs—business, engineering, computer science, pure sciences, mathematics, and law.
For the international students who already reached their home government’s annual funding limit, the tuition hike forced them to drop out of Concordia or take on significant debt. The school did not consult students about the tuition hikes, and many suffered as a result.
The same thing is happening this year. Our school administration isn’t telling us about its latest hike. The fact that it is being done in secret, without the consultation of those affected, is the provision’s major problem.
Some may argue that Concordia University has every right to increase international students’ tuition costs. But it’s very easy to criticize students from the pedestal of privilege that comes with Canadian citizenship. When international students from third world countries come to Concordia, they come at a serious disadvantage. Along with cultural and educational unfamiliarity, international students already pay tuition that is significantly higher than Canadians’. And Concordia’s administration thinks it’s okay to raise their tuition even more? That’s unacceptable.
In its public statements and marketing strategy, Concordia says it wants a diverse body and students from all different backgrounds in life. But this tuition hike will make sure that only rich people can get in.
Concordia has to be honest with us: all they care about is new revenue. They don’t care if the student body ends up being filled with only the elite. When it comes to new ways of making money, Concordia couldn’t care less about the diversity of its student body.
The school doesn’t want to tell us the exact details of its plan, because it knows we would be able to stop it. My interpretation of the strategy is that it is to secretly raise tuition, making it public knowledge near the end of the semester. This means that, as most international students head back home, they will be hit with an unexpectedly high tuition cost. For the international students who can’t afford the new hike, they simply won’t come back to Canada.
Problem solved, every victim of the tuition hike is thousands of miles away from the school, unable to protest. The victims are silenced before they can even utter a single cry.
We need to protest these tuition hikes. Protecting our right to affordable education is a core value of Quebec. For the past 50 years, the Quebec student population has fought for accessible education. Every decade since the 1960’s has been marked by a major student protest that profoundly affected our schools for the better. Students have forced the provincial government to create a new university, have fought for and won improved bursaries, and have beaten back major tuition hikes.
Every time our government tries to commercialize our institutions, we remind it that affordable education is a right. Critics may look down on our efforts to protests for affordable education, but all students in Quebec benefit from half a century of student solidarity.
After so many years, and so many successes, why would we give up our protests and let the government turn tuition into a new revenue stream? We have nothing to lose from these protests, but the shackles of crippling student debt— debt that every North American student struggles with but us.
When international students come to us for accessible education, we need to help them get it. The school doesn’t want to tell us about the hike because they know that if we mobilize, they’ll be unable to pass the measure.
We have fought off tuition hikes for a good five decades now, and we need to keep going. If this tuition hike passes, we are demonstrating that the student body isn’t as passionate about accessible education as it used to be.
It’s also important to remember that when tuition costs rise for international students, tuition hikes for all students are inevitably coming. This fight, just like every fight we’ve ever had, is a symbol of our passion for accessible education. The affordable university we have today is thanks to 50 years of protests and passion—it’s now our turn to uphold that legacy.
On Nov. 24, 2016, the Finance Committee of the Board of Governors is going to pass a vote for or against the tuition hikes. In protest, we are going to have a “Red Day.” On the day of the vote, we invite you all to wear red and to get a pin from one of our tables in the school lobbies.
Talk to and educate the people around you. Organize your friends. Speak in your classes. We are all going to be deeply affected by this, and we all have the power to stop it.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
Opinions
No Remuneration Without Representation
Kabir Bindra
Opinions
Stronger Together
Lucinda Marshall-Kiparissis and Marc Richard
News
Business Students to Hold Strike GA
Corey Pool
News
Business and Sustainability, Sitting in a Tree
Verity Stevenson
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
