
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
CSU Creates Committee Against Potential Tuition Hikes
Also: Fee-Levy Increase for QPIRG to Be Put to Ballot
News by Vince Morello — Published October 18, 2016 | Comments
Follow @vinnymorellz
QPIRG will be pushing for their first fee-levy increase since 2007. Photo Nikolas Litzenberger
As part of their positions book, the Concordia Student Union is mandated to “oppose any increase in tuition fees and obligatory institutional fees for all students.”
So when Concordia University’s new Chief Financial Officer Denis Cossette announced an increase in tuition because of the school’s projected $6.4 million deficit, the CSU created the Stop the Hike Ad-Hoc Committee at a council meeting on Wednesday.
A focus of the committee will be to address the university’s proposal to increase tuition fees for international students in deregulated programs.
In a budget meeting on Sept. 1, Cossette warned it was possible that the government will deregulate all programs, but he did not know whether or not that would increase tuition in the future.
“The purpose of the committee is to coordinate, research and campaign regarding this issue,” External and Mobilization Coordinator Aloyse Muller said.
CSU council approved the motion to create the committee, however, the participating members have yet to be decided. Muller is hoping at least one student from every faculty association—like the Arts and Science Federation of Associations and the Fine Arts Students Alliance—will fill the positions.
QPIRG Referendum Question
Also approved at council was to add a question about increasing Quebec Public Interest Research Group Concordia’s fee-levy to referendum in this year’s by-elections in November.
QPIRG is a resource centre for students interested in community research and organizing about diverse and environmental issues.
For the first time since 2007, QPIRG is looking to increase its fee-levy by eight cents, which would bring the group’s total to 39 cents per credit from its current 31 cents per credit.
“Our current budget doesn’t reflect increased costs or QPIRG Concordia’s consistent growth on campus and in the community,” said Eamon Toohey, one of its board members. “A modest fee-levy increase will be indispensable in allowing QPIRG Concordia to continue supporting Concordia students and the broader campus community.”
When the policy committee reviewed the fee-levy recommendation, Sophia Sahrane, the CSU Academic and Advocacy Coordinator, said the application was “complete.”
The only concern was that it was unclear if QPIRG staff were being paid a living wage of $15 an hour. Changing the question to reflect this would “put too much pressure on students to vote ‘yes,’” the policy committee reasoned. It was later corrected by QPIRG.
It was later revealed to the CSU that QPIRG pays its staff $21.70 an hour, addressing their concern.
Students will be able to vote on this issue during the by-elections, when polling is open from Nov. 15 to 17.
“We are optimistic that Concordia undergrads value QPIRG Concordia and our core social and environmental justice mandate,” Toohey said.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Concordia Tuition Fee Hikes Set for Next Year
Miriam Lafontaine
News
Students Unite Against a Strike
Laura Beeston
Opinions
Heard in the Hall
Jacob Roberts
Opinions
Striking Failure
Brian Lapuz
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
