
News
Dissecting Quebec’s Far-Right
Concordia Food Coalition Wants Fee-Levy Increase
La Meute and Storm Alliance Rally to Take Place Nov. 25
Fundraising Brings $125 million to Concordia
Sports
McGill 93, Concordia 66: Stingers Blown Out of the Gym
#5 McGill 3, Concordia 2 (OT): Stingers Play Better But Still Can’t Beat Their Rivals
#5 McGill 2, Concordia 1: Stingers’ High-Powered Offense Absent Against Rivals
Ottawa 2, #5 Concordia 1: Stingers’ Late Push Falls Short Against Gee-Gees
Fringe Arts
Theatre Review: Rinse. Wash. Repeat. Thrives at the Cazalet Theatre
Festival Review: Her Side of the Story Gives Women Their Narratives Back
Artist Profile: Bianca Muñiz Expresses Her Challenges Through Her Music
Festival Review: The South Asian Film Festival of Montreal Aims to Open Up the Floor for Discussion
Letters
Letter: Julia Sutera Sardo Addresses Arts and Science Students
Letter: Concordia President Alan Shepard Thanks Open House Volunteers
Letter: Participate in Collective Gardens Around the City
Letter: Residential Services for Disabled Individuals: Great Shortcomings Persist
Opinions
Bike Safety Is in the City’s Hands
Where Quebec Stands on Sexual Violence Prevention
Photo Essay: Shooting Guns in L.A.
Abortion Is Still Not a Constitutional Right in Canada
Special Issue
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Why Don’t Men Cry?
Discover Different Forms of Art Therapy and Where To Find Them in Montreal
Community Group CACTUS Strives for Harm-Reduction With Newly-Opened Safe Injection Site
Blogs
Comics
Fringe Calendar
FringeBlog
From the Archives
Hyperlink
Link Live Sessions
LinkBlog
Media File
Pic Picks
Pressbox Hat Trick
Sex & Pancakes
That Transsexual Guy
The Download
The Scratch
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube
Search
CSU Hosts Town Hall to Denounce International Tuition Hikes
Call for Concordia Admin to Stop Treating International Students Like “Cash Cows”
News by Miriam Lafontaine — Published November 21, 2016 | Comments
Follow @MiriLafontaine
The Concordia Student Union is taking a stance against the university’s rumoured tuition hikes for international students in deregulated programs—which includes engineering, computer science, business, pure sciences, and mathematics—and they want more students to mobilize with them against it.
In hopes of getting more students on board, they organized a town hall meeting to raise awareness about the proposed tuition hikes on Wednesday afternoon in the mezzanine of the Hall Building.
Although the majority of the CSU executives aren’t international students themselves, they are still showing support for those international students who will be affected.
“It’s time to stop with the xenophobia,” said Sustainability Coordinator Lana Galbraith.
“It’s time to stand up for the people of the future, and it’s time to stand up for the [international students] who are going to be completely blindsided when they come to university next year,” she continued.
As it stands, it is unknown how much the fees will increase, as the university has not been transparent with the CSU. On Nov. 24, the financial committee of Concordia’s Board of Governors will meet to discuss implementing a new pay system called, “cohort pricing,” according to university spokesperson Chris Mota.
Cohort pricing is a system where international students in deregulated programs will be promised a set tuition rate for the duration of their studies, Mota previously explained to The Link. While cohort pricing does not necessarily mean tuition will raise for these students, it is a possibly the finance committee will look into, she said.
The Association for the Voice of Education in Quebec is a federation of student associations that represents the student population in Quebec, and includes the CSU. Representatives of AVEQ have expressed concern that international tuition hikes here could possibly mean an increases in fees in other Quebec campuses as well.
They have hinted that they are planning to organize a campaign against tuition for international students across Quebec.
“Were trying to make this into a larger campaign across the province, so we can bring your voice to the provincial level,” said AVEQ’s Coordinator of Mobilization and Associative Development, Kristen Perry.
On Dec. 14 at 4 p.m., Concordia’s Board of Governors will be holding a meeting to possibly vote on whatever proposal its finance committee brings to the table, if they bring any.
While the meeting, held in room GM-410, will not be open to the public, it can be viewed in room H-6331. The CSU is encouraging whoever wants to protest the hike to show up at either location, Galbraith said.
By commenting on this page you agree to the terms of our Comments Policy .
Related Reading
News
Welcome to Concordia, Would You Like a Receipt?
Michelle Pucci
News
Concordia Tuition Fee Hikes Set for Next Year
Miriam Lafontaine
News
Political Science Students Vote to Strike
Pierre Chauvin
News
Talkin’ ‘Bout Our Reputation
Megan Dolski
Most Popular
Racines Bookstore Exposes Montreal North’s Roots
News – 11/07/17
McGill University Figure Skating Club Are the Only Team in the Province
Sports – 11/07/17
Quebec Students Gear Up to Fight Against Unpaid Internships
News – 11/07/17
Men Need to Talk About Their Mental Health
Special Issue – 11/07/17
Kunlun 3, Montreal 1: Les Canadiennes Face First Defeat at the Hands of the Red Star
Sports – 11/12/17
Current Issue
Volume 38, Issue 3
November 7th, 2017
Download PDF
Podcast
Archives
About Us
Advertise
Contribute
RSS
All content © 2017 The Link Publication Society Inc. Top of Page
