  the people's potato
home
who are we?
history of the potato
constitution and fee-levy information
our board of directors
funding and opt-outs
volunteering
accessibility
news and events
our services
solidarity requests
foodbank
good food box
community garden
Montreal food assistance
our recipe book
things we sell >
t-shirts
mugs
photo gallery
contact us
Montreal food assistance
Interested in Volunteering?
The People’s Potato would not be able to produce meals for over 400 hungry students and community members without the generous help of our volunteers. We NEED you! Volunteers can help in our kitchen for however long they like, anytime between 9am and 3pm, Monday to Friday. By helping out, you’ll have the perk of not having to wait in line for your lunch and can instead eat in our serving area. It’s a great opportunity to learn about vegan cooking and meet many wonderful people!
Options
1.  Cooking Work
Every weekday morning from 9am until 12:30pm we need help with washing, peeling and chopping veggies in order to prepare our soup, stew and salad. Just come to our kitchen and we’ll be happy to show you the ropes.
2.  Serving on the Line
We are looking for people to help us serve the meal from 12:30 to 2pm.  Come check out our serving area.
3.  Dishes And Clean Up
From 12pm to 3pm we need help washing dishes and cleaning the kitchen. Bring a friend or some music to play and see the time fly!
4.  Greenhouse And Garden
The Potato Garden is located behind the Loyola campus.  Every spring, we plant seedlings at the Concordia Greenhouse and get ready to plant in our garden.  Our garden thrives on and depends on the work of volunteers every summer.  If you are interested, feel free to come to the Potato and speak to the garden coordinator for more information - or email us at peoplespotato@gmail.com . 
Guidelines
Now that you are considering volunteering, we’d like to let you know of a few of our kitchen guidelines.  Here is a list of the basic DO’S and DONT’S to being an awesome volunteer at the Potato.
*Don't engage in any behaviour or language that is sexist, racist, homophobic or otherwise discriminatory (check out our constitution for further details)
*Don't harass or disturb other volunteers or workers 
*Don't work on tasks that you don't feel comfortable with
*Don't wear sandals or tank tops for health and safety reasons
*Do wear a hairnet or hat and an apron when in the kitchen or serving area, and please tie your hair back if it is long
*Do find out where the first aid kit is in the kitchen in case of an accident
*Do ask our kitchen staff what else you can do if you're finished with the task at hand
*Do come to work and help out...volunteering at the Potato is a great way to meet new people, but not just another spot to hang out
*Do have fun and come back again!
The staff of the People's Potato has the right to ask any volunteer to leave if they cannot comply with these guidelines. If you have any questions about them, don't hesitate to ask. If you have any inquiries or concerns about volunteering with us, please talk to one of our staff, or ask for the Potato volunteer coordinators.
Welcome!
 
People's Potato Scent-free policy
Out of consideration for people who are sensitive to scents and who may have adverse reactions if exposed to them, please do not wear heavily scented products in the kitchen. If you have scented products with you, please take care not to open them in the kitchen and do not apply them immediately before entering the kitchen. This includes cologne, perfume, essential oils, scented hair gel, lotions and other other products scented with chemicals or concentrated natural scents.
Create a free website
Powered by
✕
