Features Pricing Support Learning Blog
Sign Up Free
Log In
Search
Menu
Close
Marketing automation is like a second brain for your business.
A brain that automatically helps you find and connect with your audience so you can build your brand and sell more stuff. Activating your MailChimp brain is free and easy. Explore 10 of our most powerful automations that handle the marketing stuff so you can focus on the rest of your business.
Learn More About Brains
Scroll to the Homepage
Build your brand.
Sell more stuff.
Sign Up Free
MailChimp is the world’s largest marketing automation platform. It’s like a second brain that helps millions of customers—from small e-commerce shops to big online retailers—find their audience, engage their customers, and build their brand.
Send better email
Whether you need to sell your products, share some big news, or tell a story, our campaign builder makes it easy to create email campaigns that best suit your message.
Automate your marketing
Keep a personal touch while removing manual tasks from your to-do list. Pre-built marketing automation creates room to focus on strategy. Welcome, re-engage, and follow up with the people who matter to you.
Put your data to work
MailChimp integrates with all the major e-commerce providers so you can use your purchase data to send personalized campaigns and better understand how your marketing affects your bottom line.
Find your people
Our 3 advertising channels help you reach every audience. Use our integrated Facebook and Instagram ad campaigns to find new customers and reconnect with others. Then, use Google remarketing ads to convert your website visitors into shoppers. If you just want to learn more about marketing automation, we can help with that too: What is Marketing Automation?
Advertise on:
Product photos from 
Shoes of Prey
See how you’re doing
There’s always room to be better. MailChimp reports show you how well you’re connecting with your audience and how much money you’re bringing in. We’ll give you customized tips for improvement, and you can check in from anywhere with our mobile dashboard.
Get started today
MailChimp gives you the marketing tools to be yourself on a bigger stage.
Sign Up Free
Features
Google Remarketing Ads
Facebook Ads
Instagram Ads
Email Templates
Abandoned Cart
Marketing Automation
Product Recommendations
Mobile App
Tools
Integrations
Email Design Reference
API Docs
Status
Resources
Guides
Research
Experts
Agencies
About
About MailChimp
Jobs
Brand Assets
Investor Relations
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Contact MailChimp
Abuse Desk
Press Resources
Application Feedback
©2001-2017 All Rights Reserved. MailChimp® is a registered trademark of The Rocket Science Group. Privacy and Terms
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
