English
Français
Menu
About Us
Our Mission
Council of Representatives
Executive Team
Judicial Board
Funding and Fees
Directory
University Bodies
Senate
Board of Governors
Jobs @ CSU
Services
Advocacy Centre
Legal Information Clinic
Housing and Job Bank (HOJO)
Classifieds
Health and Dental Plan
Hive Loyola Free Lunch
Emergency Food Vouchers
Bookings
General Booking Terms and Conditions
CSU Mezzanine Information Tables Terms and Usage Policies
CSU Live Newsletter
Projects
Reggie's Bar Renovations
Daycare Service
Hive Café Solidarity Co-op
Cooperative Student Housing
Cooperative Housing Committee
Cooperative Housing Focus Group
Concordia Student Congress
Survey
Campaigns
Campaigns
Unpaid Internships
Climate Justice & Divestment
Anti-Consumerism
Past Campaigns
#BringBissanHome
Austerity
International Tuition Hike
Tribunals
Student Life
Fee Levy Groups
Student Groups & Associations
Bursaries at the CSU
Sustainability
Food Systems Reform
Sustainability Resources on Campus
Food System Special Project Funding Policy
Clubs
Active Clubs
Starting a New Club
How to Manage your Club
Resources
Apply for Funding
Apply for Funding
Special Project Funding
CSU Special Clubs Funding
CSU Community Action Fund
Food Systems Special Project Funding
CSU Committee Funding
Other Sources of Funding
Home
Concordia Powerlifting Club
Jan 21, 2016
powerlift
Language
Undefined
E-mail Address: 
concordia.powerlifting@gmail.com
Club Description: 
The Concordia Powerlifting club brings a new dynamic to Le Gym and the whole campus by uniting all powerlifters, ranging from beginner all the way to advanced. Powerlifting is an individualistic sport, however having the right training partners is essential when trying to achieve your goals. As a result, it tends to be hard for most people practicing power lifting to find training partners with the same mindset. Having a club to join rather than an online forum makes the interactions in between members far more valuable. Having a group of people with the same mindset will motivate you to surpass your limits and excel in the sport.  
For any new members joining a gym, they are generally only shown one way of training. This method is typically referred to as bodybuilding. People might not necessarily like this type of exercise and tend to give up rather than try to find something that they enjoy. Having the ability to join a fitness/sports club would allow them to experience a different side of training. They would be able to find immediate support and guidance at the most important time. Experimenting with different techniques or training regimens would make the whole process far more enjoyable, which could influence other students who might have been intimidated beforehand to join a gym. The more experienced members of the club would then mentor or at least introduce the beginners to the sport. This could prevent injuries in the long run and create a far more enjoyable experience.
For the more advanced lifters, certain events and competitions would be organized throughout the year. There are events all around Quebec and Canada referred to as “meets”, where hundreds of powerlifters come to test their “max” or limits. If things go well, students can go to these events and represent Concordia, expanding the community and bringing more attention to the university.
With such a club, it would allow the sports and fitness community at Concordia to grow all while bringing more students closer together. This will create a campus with healthier individuals and will promote and healthy and active life style. 
Executives: 
Position of Executive: 
President & Treasurer
Name Of Executive: 
Michel Balik
Additional Responsibility: 
Signing Officer & Booking Officer
Position of Executive: 
VP Events
Name Of Executive: 
Phoebe Cullingham
Position of Executive: 
Head Coach
Name Of Executive: 
Sebastian Jacek-Cote
Additional Responsibility: 
Secondary Signing Officer
Constitution: 
Concordia Powerlifting Club Constitution 2016-02-03.docx
Date of Last Update to Constitution: 
Thursday, January 21, 2016
Quick Links
Login
Resources
Jobs
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email - info@csu.qc.ca
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved
