English
Français
Menu
About Us
Our Mission
Council of Representatives
Executive Team
Judicial Board
Funding and Fees
Directory
University Bodies
Senate
Board of Governors
Jobs @ CSU
Services
Advocacy Centre
Legal Information Clinic
Housing and Job Bank (HOJO)
Classifieds
Health and Dental Plan
Hive Loyola Free Lunch
Emergency Food Vouchers
Bookings
General Booking Terms and Conditions
CSU Mezzanine Information Tables Terms and Usage Policies
CSU Live Newsletter
Projects
Reggie's Bar Renovations
Daycare Service
Hive Café Solidarity Co-op
Cooperative Student Housing
Cooperative Housing Committee
Cooperative Housing Focus Group
Concordia Student Congress
Survey
Campaigns
Campaigns
Unpaid Internships
Climate Justice & Divestment
Anti-Consumerism
Past Campaigns
#BringBissanHome
Austerity
International Tuition Hike
Tribunals
Student Life
Fee Levy Groups
Student Groups & Associations
Bursaries at the CSU
Sustainability
Food Systems Reform
Sustainability Resources on Campus
Food System Special Project Funding Policy
Clubs
Active Clubs
Starting a New Club
How to Manage your Club
Resources
Apply for Funding
Apply for Funding
Special Project Funding
CSU Special Clubs Funding
CSU Community Action Fund
Food Systems Special Project Funding
CSU Committee Funding
Other Sources of Funding
Home
Conservative Concordia
Aug 27, 2015
conservativeconu
Language
English
E-mail Address: 
conservativeconu@gmail.com
Club Website URL: 
www.conservativeconcordia.ca
Club Description: 
Who we are:
We are a student club regrouping members of the Conservative Party of Canada. Our values and principles include:
 
Limited, constitutional government;
Free markets and free enterprise, private ownership and demonopolisation, personal and fiscal responsibility, and low taxation;
Equality before the law and a justice system that holds everyone equally accountable, that punishes criminal offenders and that protects the law-abiding;
Foreign policy that advances and supports freedom and democracy around the world;
Responsible, fact-based stewardship of the environment;
Intrinsic value of all human life; and
Institutions of marriage and the family as the essential building blocks of a free, prosperous and democratic society.
If you share this political view, then the Conservative Party is your political home!
Why else should you join?
As a member of Conservative Concordia, you will have the opportunity to network with young like-minded individuals from throughout the country. Like us, you most likely enjoy social pub nights. Though if you also enjoy attending classy cocktail events and wearing business attires, you might get to meet Conservative members of Parliament, senators, national councillors and other activists with whom you can exchange! Campus Conservatives are also given the opportunity to apply for a paid summer internship in Ottawa during the summer. If you already happen to be involved with your respective EDA, your involvement with us could only provide you with more experience. If all this sounds as awesome to you as it does to us, then join our club! Just fill out the form  and someone will be in contact with you shortly. Please note that your up-to-date membership with the Conservative Party is an asset for you to fully and effectively represent yourself as a Campus Conservative. Click here  to obtain or renew your membership.
Our Vision and Mission on Campus:
While all Concordia-based campus clubs are obliged to register through the Concordia Student Union (CSU), we believe that campus clubs should have the right to choose whether they would prefer to be affiliated directly with Concordia University, as opposed to the CSU. We believe that students should be the ones to choose whether they would like to join a student union or not, as opposed to being automatically listed in a student union and having to pay union fees each semester. We also inform students of their right to abstain from paying fees to groups that they automatically finance each semester, without prior consent. Right now, all students are subject to paying various student groups whether they use their services or not. Since we adhere to economic freedom, we believe that it is a student's right to opt-out of any group that he or she does not wish to endorse and finance, whatever the reason, and that each group should publicly disclose its expenditures. Lastly, we oppose the use of picket lines in front of classrooms or entrances as we believe that students and professors, who do not agree with the strikes and who compose the silent majority, should have the right to attend/teach their lectures.  Click here  to view the full list of groups of which you can opt-out.
If all this sounds as awesome to you as it does to us, then join our club! Just fill out the  form  and someone will be in contact with you shortly. Please note that your up-to-date membership with the Conservative Party is an asset for you to fully and effectively represent yourself as a Campus Conservative.  Click here  to obtain or renew your membership.
Telephone Number: 
514-941-4088
Executives: 
Position of Executive: 
President
Name Of Executive: 
David W. Dunleavy
Additional Responsibility: 
Primary Signing Officer
Position of Executive: 
Executive Vice President
Name Of Executive: 
Maria Yordanova
Additional Responsibility: 
Secondary Signing Officer
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Finance and Corporate Relations
Name Of Executive: 
James Cefis
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of External Relations
Name Of Executive: 
Alireza Srivastava
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Communications
Name Of Executive: 
Katerina Gang
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Events
Name Of Executive: 
Ashley Langburt
Additional Responsibility: 
Booking Officer
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Membership
Name Of Executive: 
Patrick Cumming
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Corporate Relations
Name Of Executive: 
Hunter Cana Bettens
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Policy
Name Of Executive: 
Philip Skowronski
Position of Executive: 
Vice President of Campaigning
Name Of Executive: 
Yuan Hang Sun
Constitution: 
Club Constituion Outline (Conservative Concordia).pdf
Date of Last Update to Constitution: 
Friday, January 6, 2017
Quick Links
Login
Resources
Jobs
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email - info@csu.qc.ca
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved
