English
Français
Menu
About Us
Our Mission
Council of Representatives
Executive Team
Judicial Board
Funding and Fees
Directory
University Bodies
Senate
Board of Governors
Jobs @ CSU
Services
Advocacy Centre
Legal Information Clinic
Housing and Job Bank (HOJO)
Classifieds
Health and Dental Plan
Hive Loyola Free Lunch
Emergency Food Vouchers
Bookings
General Booking Terms and Conditions
CSU Mezzanine Information Tables Terms and Usage Policies
CSU Live Newsletter
Projects
Reggie's Bar Renovations
Daycare Service
Hive Café Solidarity Co-op
Cooperative Student Housing
Cooperative Housing Committee
Cooperative Housing Focus Group
Concordia Student Congress
Survey
Campaigns
Campaigns
Unpaid Internships
Climate Justice & Divestment
Anti-Consumerism
Past Campaigns
#BringBissanHome
Austerity
International Tuition Hike
Tribunals
Student Life
Fee Levy Groups
Student Groups & Associations
Bursaries at the CSU
Sustainability
Food Systems Reform
Sustainability Resources on Campus
Food System Special Project Funding Policy
Clubs
Active Clubs
Starting a New Club
How to Manage your Club
Resources
Apply for Funding
Apply for Funding
Special Project Funding
CSU Special Clubs Funding
CSU Community Action Fund
Food Systems Special Project Funding
CSU Committee Funding
Other Sources of Funding
Home
Typhon Dragonboat Club
Oct 08, 2015
dragonboat
Language
Undefined
E-mail Address: 
typhondragonboat@gmail.com
Club Description: 
Typhon is a Montreal based dragonboat team made up of a community of members from various backgrounds. Although we all strive to perform our best at practices and competitions, our ultimate goal is to promote networking, team-bonding, and a healthy active lifestyle while having fun.
Dragonboat is a water sport whereby teams consisting of 20 paddlers (10 on each side), 1 drummer, and 1 steersperson race against each other on a human-powered watercraft to be the first to cross the finish line. Typical race distances include 200 m, 500 m, 1 km and 2 km. As with any team sport, it requires a high level of commitment and dedication from each individual member so that the team can move forward as a whole. Although popular within the Asian community, the sport has also fostered a healthy membership in all communities and nations.
To promote team bonding, many social activities are organised throughout the year including but not limited to: fundraisers, BBQs and dinner parties, attending movies or live performances, hiking, board game and video game sessions, and the sort. There is always something for everyone.
Do not be fooled by the social aspect, since there is a lot of hard physical training that is involved. The team practices on average twice a week on the water and three times a week on land during the summer. Winter practice is also available where the team practices indoors. Typically during the summer season, the team participates in at least 3 regattas. Apart from the races that take place here in Montreal, Typhon has competed at Toronto, New York, and Hong Kong in the past. 
The Typhon team has a long history. Branching off from another team in 2007, Typhon was an independent team with no affiliation. It was simply a group of friends who enjoyed the sport. For the next 5 years, the team was able to recruit new members through friends and family. To promote diversity, the team became affiliated with Concordia University in 2012 as a student club to continue finding new members from different backgrounds.
Visit us at https://www.facebook.com/typhondragonboat/.
Executives: 
Position of Executive: 
President
Name Of Executive: 
Nathalie Sin-Yin Au
Additional Responsibility: 
Primary Signing Officer
Position of Executive: 
Vice-president
Name Of Executive: 
Thien P. Tran
Additional Responsibility: 
Secondary Signing Officer
Position of Executive: 
Executive
Name Of Executive: 
Sairanga Cheemalavagupalli
Additional Responsibility: 
Booking Officer
Date of Last Update to Constitution: 
Thursday, October 8, 2015
Quick Links
Login
Resources
Jobs
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email - info@csu.qc.ca
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved
