Mandate & History | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Mandate & History
What is CUPFA?
Recognized since 1989 by the Quebec Ministry of Labour, the Concordia University Part-time Faculty Association is an association of part-time faculty employed by Concordia University to defend and negotiate on behalf of its members. The Association not only defends the rights of its members, it supports and showcases their achievements relating to their professional development, their creative endeavors, and their academic research.
As a union, the Association builds on the networks established to defend the working conditions of our members. We have developed solid coalitions with the Concordia University Inter-Union Council, FNEEQ (our sister unions in Quebec), student federations and groups, and with the COCAL movement of part-time faculty across Canada, the United States and Mexico.
The Association is active on all University bodies and committees and participates in the formulation of academic and administrative policies. From the Board of Governors, Senate, and Faculty Councils to Departmental Committees we advance the faculty’s pedagogical needs. In this manner the Association defends the University as an institution of higher learner with its academic mission.
CUPFA remains an independent union and while not affiliated with a central union in Quebec, our mission is to serve the members directly. The CUPFA Executive and our dedicated staff ensure a quality service to the membership. We are as much concerned about the working conditions of members as we are about their general well being.
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
