Executive 2017-20 | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Executive 2017-20
Robert Soroka
B. Comm, MBA, Juris Doctor
President
Soroka has a varied background as a criminal lawyer, professor, union executive, marketing analyst, TV and radio personality, conference speaker, consultant, and, as a pastime, actor and playwright.  He began his career as a marketing and financial analyst for large organizations.  After earning his Juris Doctor degree (State University of New York) he practiced criminal law. Upon returning to Canada, he served as a consultant for public and private organizations.
Soroka is presently a faculty member at JMSB, and was a faculty member at several other universities and CEGEPs. At Dawson College, he served as Department Chair and Program Coordinator for 10 years and founded the annual Dawson Quebec Case Competition. At McGill, Soroka served as the Grievance Officer for the Course Lecturers’ Union.
He was the recipient of Concordia University JMSB’s Distinguished Teaching Award and the McGill University Management Undergraduate Students’ Teaching Award.
Soroka has made more than 1500 television and radio appearances (national and local), and was a regular commentator on CTV, Global TV, and CBC. He hosted a local week-in-review radio show for several years.  One of Soroka’s passions is theatre; he has authored several produced plays.
As CUPFA president, Soroka provides leadership in all labour-related areas. Among other things, he contributes meaningfully to various committees, provides strategic direction to the Executive, and manages several portfolios. He contributes his legal and business expertise while serving on the Labour Relations Committee and the Negotiating Team. He is the primary liaison with the University’s Senior Executive, and currently sits on Senate.
E:  robert.soroka@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Me Patrice Blais
Vice President, Collective Agreement and Grievance
Patrice Blais has been practicing law since 2006 after obtaining degrees in Law (Université de Montréal) and Political Science (Concordia University). In 2009, he began teaching at Concordia. He teaches in the fields of business law and ethics, not-for-profit organizations law, labour law, and public security and terrorism in the Departments of Political Science and Management at Concordia; he also teaches business law at Dawson College.
Me Blais joined the CUPFA Executive in 2010 as VP Grievance and Collective Agreement and was re-elected to that position in 2011, 2014 and 2017.  As Chief Negotiator for CUPFA, Me Blais negotiated the 4th and 5th Collective Agreements.  He sits on many University committees, most notably University Senate.  Me Blais is committed to ensuring that the contributions of part time faculty are recognized and their working conditions bettered, and that the governance of the university is improved.
E:  patrice.blais@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Lorraine Oades
Vice President, Professional Development
Lorraine Oades joined the CUPFA executive as Vice President of Professional Development in 2012. A practicing artist with over 22 years of teaching, she has acquired a broad range of experience from within the university and the Montreal art community.
Oades has been actively involved on many committees at Concordia, including Senate, Fine Arts Faculty Council, Studio Arts Department Council, Studio Arts Visiting Artist Committee, Studio Arts Curriculum Committee for Intermedia, and the CUPFA Professional Development Committee (prior to becoming VP Professional Development). In addition to overseeing the distribution of Professional Development and Small Claims funds, she promotes part-time faculty through such activities as MicroTalks, MicroLinks, CUPFA Special Project Awards and the creation of promotional videos. In addition, Oades has organized many cross-faculty events and workshops in Studio Arts and initiated a series of in-depth interviews with part-time faculty in The Concordian.
Oades looks forward to continuing to build an exciting environment that enhances part-time faculty’s research and highlights our abilities both within and outside of the University.
E:  lorraine.oades@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
June Riley
Treasurer
I am June Riley, Treasurer of CUPFA since 2011. I have been part of the CUPFA Negotiations Team since 2014 helping to settle our 2012-2015 and 2015-2017 Collective Agreements. My duties as Treasurer include care and custody of Association funds and securities, including co-management of our strike fund – worth just over $2 million – along with our professional management team at Raymond James. I supervise the financial affairs of the Association including preparation of financial reports and budgets. I act as liaison between our accountant and auditor, ensure our monthly income statements are prepared, oversee staff payroll and insurance provisions for the executive. I ensure funds stemming from the Collective Agreement, including dues, fines and grievance awards, have been paid. I provide information to the membership about the CUPFA Endowment Scholarship and assist the President with CUPFA contingency funds. I also provide information to the membership about the Pension Plan for Employees of Concordia University and any updates on government retirement plans such as QPP and OAS. I maintain and update the financial protocols of the Association and co-chair the Finance Committee of the CUPFA Executive along with President Soroka.
I have been teaching at Concordia since 1988 in the Departments of Finance and Economics, where I have been the CUPFA hiring representative since 1998 and 2007 respectively. Over the years, I have served on other committees related to curriculum, student course evaluations, student retention and teaching and learning issues. Prior to that I worked as Financial Economist and then as Senior Economist in the investment banking industry, which gives me an applied knowledge about finances and accounting.
E: june.riley@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Scott Chlopan
Executive Secretary
Scott Chlopan began teaching at a private institute in Buenos Aires, Argentina and came to Concordia in 1999. In the Department of Education, he teaches courses in English as a Second Language and teaching training for this specialisation. He has always been a strong voice for the rights of and roles played by part-time faculty. In his Department, he has served on every committee on which part-time faculty have a seat.
Scott was elected to the CUPFA Executive in 2011. He was a member of the negotiating team that secured our 4th Collective Agreement. As Executive Secretary, his core duties are to keep the Association’s records and meetings duly recorded. In addition, he leads our efforts in promoting various projects within the University, such as the Memorial Golf Tournament and the Concordia Shuffle, both of which raise money for scholarships for Concordia students, and Centraide, which raises money for those in need throughout the Montreal community. These efforts promote the importance and integral nature of part-time faculty to the University.
E:  scott.chlopan@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Laurie Milner
Chair of Communications
I am delighted to serve as Chair of Communications. I have been teaching academic seminars in the Masters of Fine Arts (MFA) Program for over 16 years and recently taught my first course in the Art History Department.  I have been active as a CUPFA representative on GSAAC, the MFA PTHC, Studio Arts Department Council, Studio Arts DAC and a Hiring Advisory Committee to the Dean of Fine Arts. In addition to my academic work, I run my own writing and editing business (www.lauriemilner.com), specializing in communications in the arts and education. My first task as Chair of Communications at CUPFA is to develop a critical path for the Association’s communications policy in harmony with the President and Negotiation Team. I am committed to ensuring clear, timely and effective communications about CUPFA activities with the membership, other unions, the media, and the university. I look forward to connecting with you.
E:  laurie.milner@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Erik Chevrier
Chair of Internal Mobilization
As Chair of Mobilization, Erik Chevrier encourages CUPFA members to participate in union activities so that, together, we can achieve the best results in our collective bargaining.
Erik teaches courses on food, media, social economy, community activism and social psychology in the Political Science, Sociology and Psychology Departments at Concordia; he also teaches a course on food and activism at Dawson College. A social entrepreneur, Erik co-founded Co-op Collective Vision (www.collectivevision.ca) and established media education programs and courses for youth in Montreal. He has served as a graduate student representative on Senate and the Board of Governors (including the Governance and Ethics, and Finance Committees), and as VP External and Director of the Graduate Student Association, VP Bargaining of TRAC, Chair of the Judicial Board of the Concordia Student Union, and board member of the Concordia Student Broadcasting Corporation.
Since joining the CUPFA Executive in 2015, Erik has organized mobilization events including social gatherings, town hall meetings, panels and other campaigns. He hopes to see you at CUPFA related activities in the future.
E:  erik.chevrier@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
Nick Papatheodorakos
Chair of External Relations
I am a practicing lawyer in commercial and labour law and a graduate from the University of Montreal Law School. I also hold a BA in Political Science from McGill University and a MA in History from Concordia University.  I have been teaching at Concordia in the Department of Management since 2008, with a specialization in law and labour relations courses.  My involvement with CUPFA includes working with a Part-Time Hiring Committee and as the representative on the Program Appraisal Committee in the Department of Management.  As the Chair of External Relations, I will be responsible for networking, developing informational resources and mobilizing with our fellow union members from various universities and community stakeholders.  I look forward to working hard in my capacity and as a member of the CUPFA Executive towards the advancement of our members’ interests and the development of fairer work conditions.
E:  nick.papatheodorakos@cupfa.org
T: 514-848-2424 ext. 3691
 
 
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
