this unofficial website is sponsored by a student association
IMCA+ArtX=Depot
IMCA Resources Center
IMCA Video Editing Suites
IMCA Production Studios
IMCA Project Lab & Workshop
IMCA EART Studios
IMCA Depot staff
IMCA Graduation Show
IMCA-SC
Academy of Art Video Art
ARTX Facilities
Intermedia/cyberarts                      Production studios
Intermedia/cyberarts Production Studio and Smart Classroom are spaces that students can use to practice, shoot video, perform and present their works. Located on the 6th floor of the EV building these spaces are 24h/7 for all students currently enrolled in an IMCA class and who have paid the VDEO lab fee.
kitten button !
IMCA STUDIOs ev.6-635 and EV.6-809 pOLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
Reserve the IMCA Studios in person at the IMCA Depot of Equipment EV.6-621.
Pick-up the key EV40 (6.635) or EV41 (6.809) at the EV security desk on the EV building main floor.
Once your shift is over, return the key to the EV security desk. Never pass yourself the key to the next person. Only security can transfer the responsibility to the next user.
Key access & Overnight: Only students with an overnight permission are allowed in the building from 23h00 to 7h00 am. and holidays.
IMCA Prod. Studio key #ev40
IMCA SMART CLASSROOM KEY# EV41
IT’S THE RESPONSIBILITY of the studio user to leave the Studio in a clean and working state:
§  Sweep and/or mop as necessary, clean table, chairs, etc. if needed.
§  Roll up and wrap the extension cords and lamp cables properly.
§  Put everything (lamps, C-stands, crates, diffusion, chairs, etc.) back in its place.
§  Make sure everything is clean and organized when you leave.
§  Do not leave any personal items in the studio; it’s not a storage space. Anything left in the studio may be throw away without notice.
NEVER TAPE, GLUE, STAPLE, PIN, OR POST ANYTHING ON ANY WALL, OR HANG ANYTHING IN THE STUDIO WITHOUT PERMISSION.
Permission will be decided on a case-by-case basis only with an explicit agreement between student and the IMCA Technician.
Any disrespect of the equipment and space could result in a denial of access to the Production Studio, for any duration, established by the IMCA Technician.
LAMPS:
§  DO NOT PLUG MORE THAN 1x 1000 WATTS LAMP ON THE SAME CIRCUIT. Refer to the circuit map on the wall in the studio to verify what circuits you are using. All permanent studio lamps are minimum 1000 Watts.
§  Blown bulbs from Studio lights must be changed by a technician. NEVER touch a new bulb with bare hands.
§  Manipulate the light's barn doors with gloves.
CHROMA KEY:
§  Do not touch the Chroma Key wall with bare hands.. Do not glue, pin or tape anything on the floor and wall.
§  Do not roll or drag dolly, stands, furnitures, etc, on the Chroma Key floor.
§  Do not move the installed lighting on the grid in the Chroma Key area under any circumstances without a prior authorization by the IMCA technician.
Production Studio EV.6-635
Dimensions: 13,2 meters x 9,2 meters (42'11" x 29'11")
-Apple MacPro, BlackMagic Intensity Pro
    -Wide black velvet curtains
    -ChromaKey wall, seamless wall to floor
    - White paper roll 12' wide
Lighting on stands
2x PAR - 1K, Tungsten Light
6x Ianiro Varibeam Open-Face - 1K, Tungsten Light
1x Mole-Richardson Super Softlite 2K (or 1K) Tungsten Light
1x Mole-Richardson Molequartz Super-Broad 1..5K Tungsten Light
On the Lighting Grid (permanent setup)
2x Mole-Richardson Baby Solar spot, Fresnel - 1K, Tungsten Light
3x Polaris -  Fresnel - 1K, Tungsten Light
1x deSiti -  Fresnel - 1K, Tungsten Light
Accessories and Grips
10x Sand bags 15lbs.
5x C-Stands (Matthew stands)
4x diffusion flag
2x MSE 1-stop scrim flag
2x MSE 2-stop scrim flag
2x MSE 3-stop scrim flag
4x MSE full-stop flag
Clothe pins
Light stands on casters
Apple boxes (black and green Chromakey)
Backdrop holder (Optional)
Fabric backdrop; red, black and ChromaKey Green (Optional)
Black foil
Half White Diffusion paper (Lee 250)
Gels (CTO, CTB, minus Green, fantasy etc.)
50" Panasonic Plasma screen.
Smart Classroom EV.6-809
Dimensions: 9.2 meters x 5,8 meters (29'11" x 18'10")
-Apple iMac Computer
-DVD & VHS players
-HD Projector
-Ceiling grid
A place to display, perform and install...
The IMCA Smart Classroom is the main classroom for all 6th floor IMCA  courses. When no courses are scheduled, this space can be used by  students as a second production studio.
The sevens tables are "foldable" and the chairs are "starkable", so the space can be easily emptied. The ceiling grid provides the  structure necessary to hang anything for the purpose of an Art  installation. The Projector and screen are permanently installed in this room and can be used to present or test Art/Video. The A/V Podium can be upgraded  with any type of player via the Creston system.
Create a free website
Powered by
✕
