Association Committees | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Association Committees
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee is a standing committee of the Executive. It is co-chaired by the CUPFA President and the Treasurer. It’s objective is to ensure that all financial transactions are completed in accordance with government regulations and to ensure that income and expenditures are properly accounted for. The Finance Committee prepares an annual budget for the membership and ensures that audited financial statements are prepared for the Association. The Finance Committee oversees the financial needs of the Association concerning all investments and expenditures.
Grievance Committee
The Grievance Committee is chaired by the Association’s Vice President Collective Agreement and Grievance. The President along with a Grievance Assistant sits on the committee. They review and conduct meaningful research of all grievances received by the Association and prepare, when required, for all grievance, arbitration and/or court hearings. The Committee has established a weekly Grievance Clinic for members to present any issue about their working conditions and about the CUPFA Collective Agreement. Members of the Grievance Committee serve as well to provide training on the Collective Agreement to PT faculty representatives serving on Department Committee. Lastly, in particular in the area of prevention, members of the Grievance Committee serve on the Labour Management Committee – a joint employer/union Committee that examines and assesses issues that will impact on part-time faculty members or on the CUPFA Collective Agreement.
Professional Development Committee
The Professional Development Committee is chaired by the CUPFA’s Vice President of Professional Development along with a Professional Development Assistant. The Committee is not wholly an Association Committee but is a joint employer/union Committee. The Committee assesses all requests for the distribution of Professional Development funds for projects submitted by members in accordance with the CUPFA Collective Agreement and oversees the administration of Small Claims.
Negotiating Committee
The Negotiating Committee is an ad-hoc Committee Chaired by the Vice President Collective Agreement and Grievance who is also CUPFA’s Chief Negotiator. The Negotiating Committee coordinates all activities, presentations, and submissions of Articles in the CUPFA Collective Agreement to our employer during contract negotiations. The “Nego Team” will ensure communications about the progress of negotiations is sent to the membership through CUPFA News and with Nego News.
CUPFA Advisory Council
The CUPFA Advisory Council was created in 1996 to ensure greater consultation and coordination between the CUPFA Executive and members representing the interests of part-time faculty on various University bodies and Committees. The Advisory Council meets at least three times a year and exchanges information on negotiations, grievances, and University policies effecting part-time faculty. The integration of PT faculty into the University’s administrative structures (and where policy decisions get made) has been an important achievement for CUPFA. We currently have PT faculty representation on the following University bodies and Committees: Board of Governors, Senate, Faculty Councils (Arts and Science, Fine Arts, JMSB, Engineering and Computer Science, SEL) and on such University bodies as Environmental Health and Safety Committees, the Employee Assistance Program, Teaching and Learning Committees, the University Library Committee in addition to PT representation on Advisory Search Committees for senior administrators as well as those for Department Chairs. PT faculty have also served on various ad-hoc Committees that get established from time to time: Evaluation Committees, Ethics Committees, and Committees involving governance.
Council of Representatives
The Council of Representatives consists of all part-time faculty representatives who sit on a number of Department Committees. These include as follows: PT Hiring Committee (PTHC), Department Council (DC), and Curriculum Committee (CC). As well, members at the Departmental level sit on Advisory Search Committees for the renewal or selection of the Chair for a Department and may also be appointed to other Committees a Department may create. All PT representatives who sit on Department committees are training on the CUPFA Collective Agreement and defend the working conditions of PT faculty at the Department level. The mandate of PT Department representatives is as well to communicate with PT faculty members in their Departments with notices, events and other issues communicated by the CUPFA Executive. As members of the Council of Representatives, they along with the CUPFA Advisory Council meet at least once a year for a dinner meeting to exchange information and address concerns to the CUPFA Executive. Lastly, all PT faculty representatives form an important link in facilitating communications and activities during contract negotiations.
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
