Skip to main content
Canada Council for the Arts - Conseil des arts du Canada
Canada Council for the arts - Tree logo
Accessibility
Press
Careers
Contact
Portal
Search
Français
Toggle navigation
Funding
Grants
Explore and Create
Engage and Sustain
Creating, Knowing and Sharing: The Arts and Cultures of First Nations, Inuit and Métis Peoples
Supporting Artistic Practice
Arts Across Canada
Arts Abroad
FAQ and Deadlines
Final Reports
Getting Started
Guide to Getting a Grant
Strategic Funds
Digital Strategy Fund
Access Support Fund
Market Access Strategy for Official Language Minority Communities (OLMC) Fund
Media Arts Equipment Acquisition Fund
Prizes
Public Lending Right
How We Make Funding Decisions
Popular links
FAQ and Deadlines
Initiatives
Commitments
Equity
Accessibility
Application and Final Report Assistance
Official Languages
Spotlight
Research
About
Careers
Governance
Board Members
CEO
Corporate Reports
Annual Public Meeting
Corporate Policies
Public Accountability
Proactive Disclosure
Important Notices
Privacy Notice
Access to Information and Privacy Acts
Public Feedback Process
Netiquette
Canadian Anti-Spam Legislation
Info Source
Copyright
Requests for Proposals
Canadian Commission for UNESCO
Art Bank
Âjagemô
Logos and Acknowledgement
Portal
Search
Search
Search our website
Search our website
×
You may also use our advanced search page .
Funding
Research
Spotlights
About
Resources
Press
Glossary
No results found
Funding
Grants
Grants
In 2016-17 over 2,100 Canadian artists and 2,100 arts organizations received Canada Council grants.
Forms for Expiring  Programs
Check out the remaining deadlines and get access to final report forms
Final Reports
We’ve created guides to help you
Guide to Getting a Grant and Getting Started
Read the Guide
Register and apply through our new portal
Before applying to our new programs, you will need to register on our portal
Register
Our grants
Canada Council grants are now organized into six programs.
Explore and Create
Explore and Create funds Canadian artists, artistic groups and organizations committed to the creation and dissemination of innovative, vibrant and diverse art. Learn more
Program Components
Professional Development for Artists
Research and Creation
Concept to Realization
Artist-Driven Organizations
Engage and Sustain
Engage and Sustain fosters a vibrant foundation for the arts in Canada by supporting arts organizations at the heart of Canada’s creative communities. Learn more
Program Components
Artistic Catalysts
Artistic Institutions
Creating, Knowing and Sharing: The Arts and Cultures of First Nations, Inuit and Métis Peoples
This program supports Indigenous individuals, groups, Indigenous-led arts organizations and arts/cultural sector development organizations that foster a vital and resilient Indigenous arts ecosystem. Learn more
Program Components
Travel
Small-Scale Activities
Short-Term Projects
Long-Term Projects
Indigenous Organizations
Supporting Artistic Practice
Supporting Artistic Practice encourages a dynamic support system for the arts in Canada by funding Canadian arts professionals, groups, and arts organizations who champion the Canadian arts sector, boost the capacity for artists to realize work and advance the conditions of creation. Learn more
Program Components
Professional Development for Arts Professionals
Sector Innovation and Development
Literary Publishers
Literary Publishing Projects
Support Organizations
National Arts Service Organizations
Arts Across Canada
Arts Across Canada fosters meaningful relationships and exchanges between artists and the Canadian public. Artists, arts professionals, groups and arts organizations can apply to present and share artistic work with diverse communities across the country, engage more deeply with the public and develop a stronger national profile. Learn more
Program Components
Travel
Representation and Promotion
Translation
Circulation and Touring
Foreign Artist Tours
Public Outreach
Arts Festivals and Presenters
Arts Abroad
Arts Abroad celebrates the creativity, innovation and excellence of Canadian artists by helping to bring Canadian works to the world. Learn more
Program Components
Travel
Representation and Promotion
Translation
Circulation and Touring
Residencies
Co-productions
Apply on the portal
Create an account and submit one or more profile(s) for validation at least 30 days before you want to apply
Portal
Guide to Getting a Grant
Glossary
Application Assistance
Application Limits
Applicant Profiles
The Digital Fund
We will amplify the quality, scale and sharing of art through digital technology, which is changing the way we relate to the arts and culture, and how we connect with each other and the world. Artists and arts organizations need to be able to thrive in this radically changing environment. Increased financial support will help them take advantage of technology to create new artistic visions and experiences, to reach new audiences and to transform their organizations and ways of working.
Composite Grants: a new approach to project funding
Composite grants provide support for several projects taking place over 1 to 3 years. Instead of submitting a number of separate project applications, individuals, groups and organizations can combine their activities into a composite proposal. Organizations may also find this to be a more flexible and less onerous alternative to core grants. Applicants will need to have a history of receiving project grants from the Canada Council before they are eligible to apply for a composite grant.
Composite grants are available in the following components:
Explore and Create: Concept to Realization
Supporting Artistic Practice: Sector Innovation and Development
Arts Across Canada: Public Outreach
Apply through our portal
1
Register your Account
Register your account on the portal.
2
Create Your Profile
Validation takes up to 30 days so do this well before your grant application deadline.
3
Apply for a grant
Once your profile is validated you can apply for grants.
Register today
Self-Nominate as a Peer Assessor
Peer assessment is the basis for the majority of the Canada Council’s arts funding decisions.
The Canada Council maintains an active registry of potential peer assessors that is used to assemble assessment committees.
Now you can submit your name to be added to this list when you register your account on the portal .
Get to know our Funding
Grants Prizes Strategic funds
Stay connected to our latest news
Join our mailing list.
Preferred Language
English
French
Leave empty
Email address
Invalid email address
 
150 Elgin St | P.O. Box 1047 | Ottawa, ON Canada | K1P 5V8
1-800 263-5588 | 613 566-4414
Exhibition space at the Canada Council for the Arts
View current exhibit
Accessibility
Logos and Acknowledgement
Contact
Public Accountability
