Pension Information | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Pension Information
All of the following documents are uploaded for information purposes only and do not represent professional financial advice.  Members are advised to obtain professional financial advice before making financial decisions about retirement. CUPFA is not responsible for any financial decision that you make.
1.  PENSION PLAN for Part-Time Faculty at Concordia University
This document has been prepared by CUPFA and is revised as of May 2017.  It explains in good detail how the Pension Plan for Employees of Concordia University works for part-time faculty.   Revisions include new information on contribution rates, and new sample calculations.  You are also encouraged to read the detailed file on Retirement Planning that is under a separate tab on this website.
» Download: HOW THE PENSION PLAN WORKS FOR PART-TIME FACULTY AT CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY
2.  University Information 
If you are not sure whether you are a member of the pension plan, just check your pay stub.  If the employer is making contributions to the pension plan for you then you are a member.
»   Download Brief Summary of Changes to the Plan
3.  Comparing RRIF to Annuity – RetirementAdvisor.ca
This is PDF copy of an article explaining the differences between RRIFs and Annuities found on the RetirementAdvisor.ca website.  This article is relevant when considering how to convert your RRSP into a flow of income for your retirement.   This article is uploaded for information purposes only.
»  Download
4.  Over to You – The Economist
This is a reprint of an article that appeared in a special edition of The Economist magazine on pensions (7 April 2011).   This article discusses defined benefit vs defined contribution pension plans.
»  Download
Last Updated on November 3, 2017.
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
