Menu
News
About
Executive
Current Executive
2014-2015
2013-2014
2012–2013
Constitution
Budget
Meetings
Minutes 2015-2016
Minutes Archive
Resources
Links
Library
Mentorship
Forecast
Broadcast
Gallery
Contact
The Concordia Association of Students in Theatre
Browse: Home » About » Executive » Executive 2015-2016
Executive 2015-2016
Shayle Kilroy- Chair
Hey, I’m Shayle! I’m a third year TDEV student with a strong interest in community engaged arts and collective theatre making. I like exploring different disciplines and working with all kinds of artists and non-artists to create dreamy places. This is my second year on the CAST executive, last year I was the Librarian and this year I’m Chair. I love dogs and science and sciency art, and I’m currently working on re-starting my rock collection. Feel free to ask me anything if you see me around or come by the CAST office during our weekly meeting !
 
Cleo Boudreau- Events Coordinator
Hello out there! So excited to be working with CAST this year (first time yeye). I started acting when I was 8, and have been hooked ever since. I feel like creative individuals are so lucky to have a community to share their art with, especially if they have super cool people representing them. I hope we can plan some awesome events this year and have the time of our lives!!
Fave food: Pad Thai
I smell like: Spicy vanilla
Guilty pleasure: Jonas Brothers and Keeping up with the Kardashians
 
Mars Loveseth-Outreach Coordinator
Hi! I’m Mars. I’m a third year Theatre and Development student and I’ve just added a minor in Computation Arts.  I’m originally from Calgary and I am a prairie kid at heart. I’m really into makeup, napping, robots, friendship, and the applications of ~performance~ from personal expression to radical community building. This is my second year with CAST, last year I served as the Treasurer as well as a student delegate and this year I’m the Outreach Coordinator, you can find me behind CAST’s social media accounts. If you have something you’d like us to share with Concordia’s theatre community, feel free to get in touch !
 Alicia Segura- Secretary and Librarian
Hi, I’m Alicia! I’m a theatre major with a background in studio arts who is excited about using theatre for social justice and community arts facilitation. I’m currently training to become a Sex Ed facilitator for youth, and love using art to imagine alternatives to prisons, capitalism,  individualism, and coolness. My day is always better if I get the chance to share a big meal, listen to the radio, or unironically read my horoscope. Come find me pouring your early morning caffeine fix at Cafe X , doing readings in the greenhouse, or slyly rising to Bookworm Stardomme in the CAST Library on the 5th floor of the GM building
Amelia Castillo- Treasurer
Hi, I’m Amelia! I’m a third year Theatre Performance student with a background in hispanic literature. I’m into puppetry, music making, silliness, language, balconies and breakfast. I’ve been thinking a lot lately about how to integrate theatre and social movements–how to make theatre that responds quickly to specific situations. I’m excited about singing in large groups, crafting circles, and art as a way of combating loneliness and alienation. It’s my first year on the CAST executive and I’ll be serving as Treasurer. Feel free to shoot me any questions if you see me around!
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Quick Links
Executive
Meetings
Contact
Copyright © 2017 CAST
Visit CAST on Facebook | Follow @CASTmtl
