Grants | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Grants
Professional Development Grants
You can apply for up to a maximum $6000 in funding for research activities for Professional Development grants. The categories for Professional Development Grants are as follows:
Conference Attendance
Conference Presentation
Workshop/Training
Preparation of Art/CD
Research
Preparation of Manuscript
Other
Deadlines for Professional Development Grants
April 01
October 15
January 15
The application and budget forms are available outside the CUPFA office and online. Make sure you read the Professional Development Guidelines carefully to ensure your project and related expenses are eligible.
Acknowledging CUPFA Professional Development Grants
If you receive a grant, you are required to acknowledge the support from Concordia University Part-time Faculty Professional Development in any publication, exhibition, catalogues, invitations, film, CD, etc. produced as a result of the award. (see Article 17). This recognition must be equal to that given to other funders, or sponsors or donors, for similar support. In addition to a written statement acknowledging  you must include the CUPFA logo in your acknowledgement.
»  Download
Professional Development Guidelines
Guidelines For The Professional Development Committee in the Distribution of Funds
1. The Committee will endeavour to fund as many applications as possible, within the following guidelines.
2. The purpose of the Professional development fund is to support part-time faculty in their own professional and academic development. It, therefore, cannot be used to support normal departmental costs and responsibilities (g.g., to pay for visiting speakers, classroom supplies, teaching materials, or curriculum and program development).
3. Applicants may request funding for only one project at each distribution (please note that a request for travel money to three conferences on the same theme is considered to be 3 different projects, a request for money for three different art installations is considered to be 3 different projects, etc.). The exception to this is that one may also apply for an inexpensive (i.e., $150.00 or less) local workshop or conference etc.
4. Monies awarded for a project which is not carried out cannot be transferred to another project without a written request to the Committee. This request should be submitted well in advance of the expiration date of the awarded grant. This request may be considered between the dates of the meetings scheduled to review applications, but may have to wait until that meeting to be reviewed (i.e., at the next possible round). Five copies of such a request should be submitted to the Chair of the Professional Development Committee, c/o the CUPFA office.
5. In an effort to distribute monies to as many CUPFA members as possible, the Committee will give a lower priority to, and may have to exclude altogether, applicants who have received funding in the same academic year, those who have received funding for two consecutive academic years (with the possible exception in #3 above). These decisions may be influenced by the availability of funds and the number and quality of new applications.
6. The Committee will not fund retroactively: the activity for which funds are requested must take place after the deadline at which the application was made. In the case of conference presentations, if the proof of acceptance of the paper in not yet available, the application should indicate this in his/her application, and forward the proof of acceptance as soon as it becomes available.
7. The Committee will take into account the use made by the applicant of any previous grant, and will evaluate the quality of his/her report. If the report was not submitted on time, the applicant will automatically be denied a new grant.
8. In the case of conferences, the Committee will give priority to those presenting a paper or giving a workshop, but will also fund attendance. Simple attendance may be funded at a percentage of the total costs; presentation of a paper will receive full funding.
9. Since Article 9 of the Collective Agreement includes course development as apart of the duties for part-time faculty, the Committee will not fund course development. However, the Committee considers as eligible many activities which enhance teaching and contribute directly to course development (such as participation in workshops, conducting research etc).
10. The fund is not intended to be a source of doctoral fellowships. The Committee will not fund tuition fees for postgraduate study, nor will it grant a stipend for work on a Ph.D thesis. It may be possible , however, to fund some support for expenses related to thesis research, such as, the costs of printing and binding a thesis.
11. The Committee will not normally fund projects whose principle purpose is the creation of a money making property for the applicant.
12. The Committee will not provide funds for capital equipment (e.g. a computer), for payments to a publisher to publish a book, or to pay the applicant for his/her time.
13. Article 17 of the Collective Agreement remains the authority: these guidelines interpret it, but do not take precedence over it.
CUPFA Professional Development Forms
Fund Grant Proposal
»  Download PDF
» Download word doc
Proposed Budget Travel
 »  Download
Proposed Budget Research
»  Download
Proposed Budget Other
Please use this form if conferences, travel, preparation of art, or research does not describe your project
»  Download
Proposed Budget conferences, workshops, training, etc.
»  Download
Proposed Budget
Preparation of art, music, etc.
»  Download
Professional Development News 2012-13
» Download
Related link
» PD Frequently Asked Questions
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
