Menu
News
About
Executive
Current Executive
2014-2015
2013-2014
2012–2013
Constitution
Budget
Meetings
Minutes 2015-2016
Minutes Archive
Resources
Links
Library
Mentorship
Forecast
Broadcast
Gallery
Contact
The Concordia Association of Students in Theatre
Browse: Home » About » Executive » Executive 2013-2014
Executive 2013-2014
2013–2014
Ned Zimmerman, President
Hi. I’m Ned. I’m a third year TDEV student and I’m honoured to have been elected CAST President for 2013–2014. I can usually be found overcaffeinating at Café X or Myriade. My greatest fear is being asked to play Stephen Harper in yet another class outcome (so far I’m at three). If you ever have a CAST or Concordia Theatre-related question, don’t hesitate to get in touch with me—on Twitter , through Facebook or by email !
Leah Fong, Vice-President Outreach
Hello beautiful theatre folk! I’m Leah Fong, in second year TPER. I am currently acting as the Vice-President Outreach for CAST so I am your go-to person for all things talk-y, listen-y, and Facebook-y. My hobbies include cuddles, potato chips, yawning loudly, and stretching… among other, more useful things. I’m always around if you need someone to chat with.
Cassia Giancola, Vice-President Finance
I am currently in my third year as a theatre performing student and I am CAST’s VP Finance. My hobbies include eating hummus, doing cartwheels in the street and tripping as I walk. I once thought that I was fearless and that is why I would bike into parked vans and fall out of trees but then my mom told me that I was just clumsy. One thing I won’t be clumsy with is the CAST budget! Meowww.
Michael Martini, Vice-President Special Events
I’m your events coordinator and a second year TPER student. I was recently seen as Elphaba in the Pickering Village production of Wicked and I encourage you to like my profile pictures even if you don’t really mean it.
Emily Schon, Secretary
I’m Emily, the Secretary for CAST. I am a third year Theatre and Development student. I like piña coladas and getting caught in the rain; also long walks on the beach with my puppets.
Julie Foster, Member at Large (Playwriting)
Hello all! My name is Julie Foster and I’m a second year Playwriting Major. I love anything involving theatre, banjo and mint chocolate ice cream. I’m short and not intimidating in the slightest, so come say hello and if you feel generous, feel free to bring me ice cream and/or banjos.
Edward Fuller, Member at Large (Theatre Minor)
Hi, I’m Ed… I’ll be wrapping up the Theatre Minor program this school year if not this semester, to go with my major in French Studies… So you feel like speaking French to me, vas-y, go ahead. À plus tard!
Michael Santiago, Member at Large (Theatre Major)
Hi, I’m Mikey. I’m a 4th year Theatre Major, going into my final year here at Concordia. My time at Concordia has been a great one, and I’m excited for this final year.
Sonya Vallis, Member at Large (Design for the Theatre)
Hi, I’m Sonya. I’m a fourth year Design for Theatre student and seem to have gotten myself involved with all things theatre at Concordia. Come find me in the studios at any hour of the day or night buried under a mountain of drafting, foam core, fabric, craft supplies and miniature set pieces. Please feel free to get in touch if you have any questions or if you need help navigating the maze of classes and productions. I don’t bite (well at least I’ll try not to)!
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Quick Links
Executive
Meetings
Contact
Copyright © 2017 CAST
Visit CAST on Facebook | Follow @CASTmtl
