Travel and Expenses | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Travel and Expenses
University Policy for Travel and Other Allowable Expenses
Two copies of a “Grant Acceptance form” will be enclosed with a letter informing you that you have been awarded a PD grant. Please read this form carefully and keep a copy on-hand for future reference. Don’t forget to sign one copy and return it to CUPFA within 30 days of receiving your grant notification.
All of your expenses must be in accordance with University policy in order to be eligible for reimbursement. If this policy is not followed Financial Services will not reimburse you. Please read the Policy for Travel and other Allowable Expenses carefully   Policy for travel and other allowable expenses
Paying Professionals
NEVER pay someone directly; they must be paid through the University. If hiring an individual or an organization (e.g., technicians, musicians, studio rental), you must complete a cheque requisition form and the University will pay the individual/organization. If you make payment yourself you will not be reimbursed. Contact your budget officer to receive cheque requisition forms.
Paying Concordia Students
If you received a PD Grant and are hiring Concordia students you must fill out a RA contract and the student(s) must fill out a TRAC Union membership form. They will still be paid directly from the CUPFA PDA account. Contact your Budget Officer for more information.
Steps for paying a Concordia Student
Make sure you read the TRAC Contract Instructions carefully
1) The Concordia student must fill out a TRAC membership form
2) Fill out the contract, sign it and have the Concordia student/Research Assistant sign it
3) Return the form to your budget office along with a void cheque for Payroll (so the money can be deposited directly into the student’s account.)
4) Your budget officer inputs the CUPFA budget codes
5) The completed contract and void cheque will be forwarded to payroll
6) The TRAC membership form must be forwarded to TRAC
Please download all the forms
Research Grant Employee Notice of Hire.
TRAC Contract RA Instructions
Appendix B.Trac Union Membership form
TRAC Contract (Excel or Numbers)
Please note that these forms can be downloaded from the HR website:
http://www.concordia.ca/hr.html
Expenses over $1000
The purchase of supplies or miscellaneous expenses in excess of $1000.00 must be done through Purchasing Services.
TRAVEL EXPENSES
If you have paid for your airline ticket yourself make sure you save your BOARDING PASSES and submit them with your receipt and expense report. Otherwise the University may not reimburse you.
Concordia University Travel Voucher
Members should consider taking advantage of University travel vouchers to pay for an airline ticket in advance.  Before you book your trip, contact your Budget Officer and they will give you an account code that you must provide when you book your ticket with one of Concordia University’s officially recognized travel agencies.  A completed travel voucher must then be sent to your Budget Officer within 24 hours  of booking the trip.  The name of your Budget Officer appears at the bottom of the contract you signed upon acceptance of your grant.  If you cannot find this important document, please call CUPFA and Karen or Manon will provide the information for you.
Download Travel Voucher – pdf
The following are the University’s preferred travel agencies:
Voyages Foreman Ideal
514-342-9554
www.groupeideal.ca
Norko International Travel
514-871-8888
www.norkotravel.com
Uniglobe Voyages Lexus
514-397-9221, ext. 230 or 242
www.voyageslexus.com
Travel arrangements may be made through any other travel agency for a lower or equal fare but only after obtaining a written quote from one of the University’s official travel agencies. This quote must be included with the expense report at the time of submission for reimbursement.
Note: if travel by train or air is being claimed, the original boarding pass is required.
The university will accept alternate travel arrangements that the claimant made abroad.
Flight-cancellation insurance and health insurance are allowable expenditures. Receipts for such expenses should be kept and indicated on the claim form.
Vehicle rental may only be claimed if it is less expensive than economy airfare or if the destination is inaccessible by air or train.
Forms most commonly used: Expense reports, travel voucher.
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
