Small Claims | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Small Claims
Small Claims covers costs related directly to teaching and are therefore only available to those members with contracts in a given year.   You may only apply if you have taught one or more of the semesters within the academic year of your application, which starts on May 1st and goes to April 30th.  
The amount available to be paid to members depends on how many people apply. You only need 12 seniority points to be eligible for Small Claims. The academic year begins on May 1, so what you buy between that date and the following March can be reimbursed.  Make sure you save your receipts and that they clearly indicate the items that you’ve purchased. For instance, if you are buying books, make sure the receipt lists the titles of each of book.
Forms for Small Claims are mailed out to members in December and are now also available online. You must submit the form by January 15 with a list of expenses you incurred, or will incur, for books, DVDs, software, an internet account and more.
Shortly thereafter, you will receive a notice letting you know how much money is available depending on how many people have applied, along with an expense report. You will need to submit your receipts and expense report to the CUPFA office by mid-February.
Sometimes invoices for items purchased online don’t include all of the appropriate information. In these cases the budget office will request a copy of your credit card statement to verify payment. To be on the safe side, keep copies of your statements handy.
Make sure you carefully read all of the information concerning how to submit your receipts. This will be sent to you with an expense report once we determine how much money is available for the year.
Small Claims – Application Form
{May 1, 2016-April 30, 2017 Budget Year}
The deadline for application is Sunday January 15, 2017, 3 p.m.
» Download Information Sheet and Small Claims Application Form
 
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
