skip to main | skip to sidebar
Wednesday
Meet SPA!
Welcome to the recently and shoddily updated SPA website! For those of you unsure of what we in SPA do, feel free to read our constitution. For those of you who already know what SPA is, feel free to ignore it! Please email us if you have any questions or if you would like to be added to our mailing list. Thanks and have a good rest of the semester!
CONSTITUTION
The SPA collective has existed since 1998 and has since been largely responsible for many of the print program’s extracurricular undertakings.
The association aims to provide an environment for artistic exchange and to build a stronger community within the program. Our intentions are to compliment the regular curriculum with activities that are not usually available within the department. These activities allow students to further their knowledge and to expand their horizons. The projects we intend on undertaking include: workshops, exhibitions, inter-university exchanges, a more informative website, newsletters, artist talks, and more.
In the past years, SPA has been responsible for organizing inter-city print exchanges, multiple book projects, several diverse exhibitions, vernissages, and annual print sales, Concordia based or inter-university print exchange and more.
SPA works as an open club, in which every registered print student is automatically a member. Positions work on a volunteer basis and students can choose their own level of involvement. To ensure a system of organization, SPA consists of an executive committee formed in the fall of each year. This year’s committee is as follows:
President: Aleksandra Wizimirska
Vice President: Sarah Long
VP External: Olivier Forgues
VP External: Mark Laurin
VP Internal: Will Austin
Event Coordinator: Katie McDonald
Our goal is to function as a coordinated body. We encourage a healthy discourse between members and seek to uphold a level of transparency within our government. We therefore make all concrete decisions together. The executive body meets weekly and works actively together to ensure a dynamic academic and social environment within the program.
The executive committee facilitates communication with FASA and CSU, ensuring monetary affairs are conducted in a orderly fashion and within the limits of allocated budgets.
All students have the right to participate in as many SPA activities as they choose. It is the responsibility of the executive committee to keep students informed of SPA activities and meetings. Students are invited to join meetings and to share their ideas and concerns. The dates and times of these meetings will be made available on the SPA website and forwarded to all students. For all additional questions, students are encouraged to email us.
--
SPA-11/12
Student Printmaking Association
Concordia University
Posted by
SPA at
9:30 PM
Newer Post Home
 
