Office of Research | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
Office of Research
Internal Funding Opportunities
In Addition to support from CUPFA’s Professional Development Fund there are a number of interesting funding internal research opportunities available to members through the Office of the Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies (VPRGS), as well as through faculty-specific competitions. These programs are designed to complement and leverage external funding opportunities.
Part-time faculty members who are actively involved in research may apply  for Accelerator Program Funding and Aid to Reseach-Related Events contingent on providing a support letter from the Department including information about the end dates for time limited appointments.
Accelerator Program
The Seed and Accelerator Funding Program grants are awarded to a maximum of $7,000 for individual projects (Stream 1) and $15,000 for team projects (Stream 2). Matching funds are accepted but not required.
» Download
Aid to Research-Related Events
The ARRE grants  are awarded to a maximum of $5,000. At least 50% matching funds are required. The matching funds will be provided by the Faculty where necessary.
Matching support from other sources is mandatory.
More information on Internal Funding can be found at: http://oor.concordia.ca/fundingopportunities/internalfundingopportunities/
External Funding Opportunities
 Affiliate Faculty Appointments
Part-time faculty members are eligible to be appointed as Affiliate faculty without losing their Part Time status through an agreement between the University and the Concordia University Part time Faculty Association.
Affiliate faculty positions provide a means for Concordia University to recognize accomplished and qualified individuals who are able to make significant contributions to the teaching and research endeavors of the University by virtue of their professional expertise and scholarship.
Affiliate faculty may carry out collaborative research with full-time faculty at Concordia, co-supervise graduate students along with a full-time faculty member, and apply for and hold research funding from external research agencies such as SSHRC, NSERC, CIHR, FQRSC, FQRNT, and FRSQ.
Guidelines for Affiliate Faculty Appointments at Concordia University (downloadable form here – available soon)
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
