Skip to content
CUJAH
About CUJAH
About Us
Contact Us
Volumes
Volume XII
Volume XI
Volume X
Volume IX
Volume VIII
Volume VII
Volume VI
Volume V
Volume IV
Volume III
Volume II
Volume I
Conference
Events
Submissions
Submit
Submission Guidelines
Events
October 2015
Workshop: Applying to Grad School
Are you thinking of applying to graduate school for admission in Fall 2016? It is highly recommended to plan your application early on. These applications can be daunting, we know. CUJAH can help! 
Come to our Grad School workshop on October 14th from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM in the Art History seminar room (EV-3.760). The workshop will be led by current MA students. Participants will have the opportunity to workshop their statements of purpose (the statement of purpose should discuss why the applicant has chosen to do graduate work in Art History at Concordia University. This is not a detailed research proposal but should indicate the applicant’s particular research interests and professional goals), get feedback, and ask questions.
The event is free of charge, but for the sake of logistics we ask that you confirm your attendance by e-mailing Daniel to  cujah@concordia.ca
 
September 2015
Digging for Funding: Fellowships Workshop by Dr. Steven Stowell
Thinking about applying for graduate school? Trying to figure out how to finance your education? CUJAH can help!
The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History will be hosting “Digging for Funding” a fellowships workshop for the provincial and federal funding competitions (Fonds Québécois de la Recherche sur la Société et la Culture [FQRSC] and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council [SSHRC] respectively).
The workshop will take place on Tuesday, September 22nd, from 1:00 PM to 2:30 PM in the art history seminar room (EV-3.760). The workshop will be led by Professor Steven Stowell.
Although the event is free of charge, RSVP is required, so please reserve your spot by                                                    e-mailing  cujah@concordia.ca  by September 18th. Please keep in mind that priority will be given to Art History students enrolled in their final year and who plan to pursue graduate studies.
To get the most out of the workshop, we ask that you bring your project proposal, however preliminary. 
 
For more information about the FQRSC application and what the project description entails, you can take a look at the sample form here:  F orm
We look forward to seeing you on the 22nd!
February 2015
The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History is proud to present its 4th Annual Concordia University Undergraduate Art History Conference. This year’s conference will focus on “Art and the Exhibition Space.” Issues of curatorship, the exhibition of Aboriginal art in museums, and the relationship between artworks and the space in which they are showcased are some of the key areas of research for art historians today.
The conference will be held at Concordia University, Montreal, on Friday and Saturday, February 6th and 7th, 2015. All events will take place in the Engineering and Visual Arts Integrated Complex: 1515, rue Sainte-Catherine Ouest, room EV.1.605.
Previous Events
CUJAH on
09/17/2014
Back to homepage
CUJAH @ Copyright 2017. - Created by SliceJack
