Skip to content
CUJAH
About CUJAH
About Us
Contact Us
Volumes
Volume XII
Volume XI
Volume X
Volume IX
Volume VIII
Volume VII
Volume VI
Volume V
Volume IV
Volume III
Volume II
Volume I
Conference
Events
Submissions
Submit
Submission Guidelines
CUJAH Vol. XIV is looking to hire students to fill positions on our Executive Team!
CUJAH is on the lookout for a Managing Editor, Conference Coordinator, Events Coordinator, and Communications Coordinator to form our 2017-2018 Executive Team! See below for position descriptions and task breakdowns.
Job Title: Managing Editor
Working with closely the Editor-in-Chief, the Managing Editor will chiefly be responsible for managing all CUJAH editors, overseeing all final edits of CUJAH’s annual publication and managing the CUJAH Archive Project.
Tasks:
Coordinate and oversee editorial activities
Work directly with Editor-in-Chief in all facets of CUJAH
Take lead on the CUJAH Archive Project
N.B. The Managing Editor’s work for CUJAH can qualify as an independent study. However, it is their responsibility to obtain the permission and supervision of a faculty member in the Department of Art History.
Job Title: Conference Coordinator
The Conference Coordinator organizes and brings to fruition CUJAH’s annual Undergraduate Art History Undergraduate Conference, which usually takes place at the end of February / beginning of March.
Tasks:
Organize and oversee CUJAH’s 7th annual Undergraduate Art History Conference
Create budget, organize room rental, contact speakers, secure refreshments & beverages, etc.
Work with Assistant Graphic Designer in the creation of conference booklets
The Conference Coordinator will receive an honorarium of $150.
Job Title: Events Coordinator
The Events Coordinator is responsible for organizing all CUJAH events throughout the year and maintaining connections with collaborators.
Tasks:
Organize and oversee CUJAH events: concept development, budget creation, room reservation, etc.
Work directly with Communications Coordinator and event collaborators
Ensure online access to events with Web Programmer
Job Title: Communications Coordinator
The Communications Coordinator is responsible for promoting CUJAH and all of CUJAH’s activities throughout the year on a consistent basis.
Tasks:
Maintain CUJAH Social Media presence, working directly with Graphic Designers in creating a visual identity for CUJAH
Maintain external communications: press, news & media
Maintain internal communications: Concordia, FASA affiliates, CUJAH teams, etc.
HOW TO APPLY:
Please send the following documents in a single PDF to thecujah@gmail.com  by:
Sunday September 17, 2017 at 11:00 p.m:
01 CV
02 Short bio (200 words maximum) stating your academic interests and current student status, and indicate which position you are applying for
03 Contact information (name, phone number, email address, student ID)
If you have questions about any of these positions, please contact us at thecujah@gmail.com , we would be glad to answer them!
CUJAH
The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History (CUJAH) was founded in 2004-2005.   Past issues can currently be found here: http://art-history.concordia.ca/student-life/undergraduate-art-history-journal-cujah/  We will be updating this website shortly to bring all the past volumes together.    OBJECTIVE OF THE JOURNAL:   • To enable students to publish their research essays and written work. • To begin a resumé of published work at the undergraduate level that may lend a hand in a student’s application for graduate admissions, scholarships and awards. • To formally participate in art historical discourse.To acquire valuable experience in publishing, writing and design.
Features
CUJAH on
09/15/2017
Features
Back to homepage
CUJAH @ Copyright 2017. - Created by SliceJack
