The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Activities & Services
The LSA organizes activities. And it provides services. The exact nature and scheduling is subject to variation from semester to semester but here is a quick list of things we do pretty consistently.
Services
The student lounge
H-665. We share the lounge with Classics and Modern Languages students. The lounge is a great place to study or meet up with fellow CMLL students. Use the blackboard to expose your latest theoretical insights, heat your lunch with the communal microwave, or catch a nap on the couch: it’s yours! All that we ask is that you remain respectful of the space by cleaning up after yourself. 
Mini-library
H-663-20. Linguistics books are available for LSA members to borrow. Inventory to appear here.
Peer tutoring
Please see the “Peer Tutoring” page to either become a tutor or find help.
 
Activities
Weekly Social Events
The best way to meet new or old friends. These events are a mix of pub socials, board game nights, and other activities.
The Wine and Cheese
A semi-formal event held at the end of each semester that is open to both students and staff. Come and enjoy wine, food, music, and conversation.
Linguistics talks
Several professionals that are doing research in different fields of linguistics are invited to Concordia present academic findings and hold Q&As.
Workshops
An opportunity for students to learn–or hone–the skill of using programs like LaTeX and Praat.
The Concordia Linguistics Symposium
Once a year, the Department organizes, jointly with the LSA, an all-day symposium for linguistics students to come and present work of their own.
…and many more!
Comments are closed.
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
