The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Category Archives: Uncategorized
New Website!
Posted on October 7, 2017 by admin
The Concordia Linguistics Student Association website has moved to the following address: https://concordialsa.wixsite.com/ling Keep up with us and all our events!
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
A Day for Thinking of Your Future
Posted on March 16, 2016 by admin
March 30th is going to be a big day! The LSA is putting on both the Sell Yourself as a Linguist workshop and the Professional Meet & Greet. Both of these events will give you skills and information to get … Continue reading →
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Posted on March 5, 2016 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Posted on February 29, 2016 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Posted on October 17, 2015 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
NELS 46 — Hosted by Concordia
Posted on October 14, 2015 by admin
Pre-registration is required but there is no fee for Concordia students!
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Casadio Slides
Posted on September 20, 2014 by admin
Hello readers, We hope you enjoyed our first colloquium! Here is a hyperlink to the slides for Professor Casadio’s presentation: Casadio Montreal 19:09:14   Cheers, LSA
Posted in Academic , Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Study in Peru
Posted on March 30, 2014 by admin
We’ve received an email from Piero Fioralisso, Coordinator of Special Programs of the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, announcing the launch of the Field School Program in Peru 2014. This program, created and developed by PUCP, provides students with the … Continue reading →
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
