The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Category Archives: Academic
← Older posts
Posted on September 16, 2015 by admin
Posted in Academic | Leave a comment
The Linguistics Tutor Bank
Posted on September 14, 2015 by admin
Do you need some extra help with your Linguistics studies? Hosted by the Linguistics Student Association, the Tutor Bank is a resource for any and all students taking a Linguistics class. In the Tutor Bank you will find a listing of … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Todd Clary
Posted on April 3, 2015 by admin
Where/when: April 10 th,  4:15pm in H527 Abstract: Vedic √vŕ̥dh
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Hannes A. Fellner The position of Tocharian in Indo-European:  Evidence from nominal morphology
Posted on March 30, 2015 by admin
When: April 7th, 4:15pm, in H-527   Abstract: Fellner_Concordia_Abstract  
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Michela Ippolito “How similar is similar enough?”
Posted on February 16, 2015 by admin
Time: 4:15 Where: 4:15 Abstract: In this talk I investigate the issue of the context-dependence of counterfactual conditionals and how the context constrains similarity in selecting the right set of worlds necessary in order to arrive at their correct truth-conditions. … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged semantics , Talk | Leave a comment
Colloquium: Dr.  Sverre Stausland Johnsen on Vowel reduction in Old English and its origin in phonetic error
Posted on February 6, 2015 by admin
When: Friday February 13th 4:15pm Where: H-527   Abstract In Old English, an original unstressed long *’ō’ is in some morphological categories reflected as variation between ‘u’ and ‘a’. The traditional explanation for this variation is that *’ō’ generally developed … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged old english , vowel reduction | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Jonathan Bobaljik
Posted on January 22, 2015 by admin
(Im)possible suppletive patterns The comparative and superlative corresponding to good are suppletive: better and best rather than hypothetical, but unacceptable, *gooder, *goodest. In a large, cross-linguistic survey of suppletion in adjectives (Bobaljik 2012), it turns out that some patterns of … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
McGill Colloquium:  Dialect variation and phonetic change: Incipient tonogenesis in Khmer
Posted on January 13, 2015 by admin
Below is information pertaining to McGill’s Colloquium: Speaker: James Kirby (University of Edinburgh) When: Monday, Jan 19, 3:30 Place: Education Building, room 627 Title: “Dialect variation and phonetic change: Incipient tonogenesis in Khmer” Unlike many languages of Southeast Asia, Khmer (Cambodian) … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , External events | Tagged colloquium , Khmer , Mcgill | Leave a comment
Book Release: The Architecture of Determiners by Thomas Leu
Posted on January 13, 2015 by admin
Our friends at UQUAM are having a book release.  There will be a presentation by the author followed by cocktails. Location: DS-1950 (320, Sainte-Catherine E) Time: Wednesday January 14 2015 à 12h45
Posted in Academic , External events , Social | Tagged book release , Determiners , UQUAM | Leave a comment
External Event: TULCON
Posted on November 18, 2014 by admin
The Society of Linguistics Undergraduate Students (SLUGS) at the University of Toronto is excited to announce its 8th annual Toronto Undergraduate Linguistics Conference (TULCON), to be held on March 6-8, 2015! TULCON is a great opportunity for undergraduate linguists to … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , External events | Tagged conference , external , Toronto , TULCON | Leave a comment
← Older posts
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
