The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Category Archives: External events
← Older posts
McGill Colloquium:  Dialect variation and phonetic change: Incipient tonogenesis in Khmer
Posted on January 13, 2015 by admin
Below is information pertaining to McGill’s Colloquium: Speaker: James Kirby (University of Edinburgh) When: Monday, Jan 19, 3:30 Place: Education Building, room 627 Title: “Dialect variation and phonetic change: Incipient tonogenesis in Khmer” Unlike many languages of Southeast Asia, Khmer (Cambodian) … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , External events | Tagged colloquium , Khmer , Mcgill | Leave a comment
Book Release: The Architecture of Determiners by Thomas Leu
Posted on January 13, 2015 by admin
Our friends at UQUAM are having a book release.  There will be a presentation by the author followed by cocktails. Location: DS-1950 (320, Sainte-Catherine E) Time: Wednesday January 14 2015 à 12h45
Posted in Academic , External events , Social | Tagged book release , Determiners , UQUAM | Leave a comment
External Event: TULCON
Posted on November 18, 2014 by admin
The Society of Linguistics Undergraduate Students (SLUGS) at the University of Toronto is excited to announce its 8th annual Toronto Undergraduate Linguistics Conference (TULCON), to be held on March 6-8, 2015! TULCON is a great opportunity for undergraduate linguists to … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , External events | Tagged conference , external , Toronto , TULCON | Leave a comment
External Talk: Robert Fiorentino
Posted on September 24, 2014 by admin
Hey, This talk may be of interest to some of you: Friday, October 3rd 2014, 10:00 am  Identifying the pieces, processes, and brain bases of complex word recognition UQAM 320, rue Sainte-Catherine Est 2e étage, salle DS-2505
Posted in Academic , External events | Leave a comment
L2 French Participants Needed for Experiment
Posted on June 17, 2014 by admin
Participants recherchés Nous cherchons des adultes sans trouble de langage pour un projet visant à développer un outil de recherche pour le langage. Vous pourriez participer au projet si – le français n’est pas votre langue maternelle, – vous êtes … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , External events | Tagged compensation , orthophonie , participants needed | Leave a comment
QS World University Rankings by Subject recognizes Concordia Linguistics program!
Posted on February 26, 2014 by admin
You may be interested to learn that Concordia University features in the world’s elite (Top 200) institutions in 7 of the 30 subjects featured in this year’s QS World University Rankings by Subject, which will be published on 26th Feb … Continue reading →
Posted in External events | Leave a comment
Exploring the Interfaces (ETI) 1: word structure
Posted on April 29, 2012 by admin
Exploring The Interfaces: Word Structure McGill University, May 6-8 2012 The conference will take place in the ballroom of Thomson House, 3650 McTavish St. Google map As part of the Syntactic Interfaces Research Group (SIRG) of McGill University and UQAM, … Continue reading →
Posted in External events | Leave a comment
April 13: Ian Roberts (Cambridge) @ McGill
Posted on April 9, 2012 by admin
Note this upcoming talk by Ian Roberts at McGill: The Significance of What Hasn’t Happened Naturally enough, the focus of diachronic syntax – and, indeed of historical linguistics more generally – has been on documenting and analyzing recorded instances of … Continue reading →
Posted in External events | Leave a comment
March 30: Jason Merchant (Chicago) @ McGill
Posted on March 26, 2012 by admin
Note this upcoming talk by Jason Merchant at McGill: More comparatives than you can shake a stick at: The case of Greek Jason Merchant (University of Chicago) Abstract: The syntax and semantics of comparatives are perennial topics of investigation not … Continue reading →
Posted in External events | Leave a comment
McCCLU 2012 – March 9-11
Posted on February 28, 2012 by admin
From McLing: In just under two weeks we will host McCCLU: the McGill Canadian Conference for Linguistics Undergraduates, March 9–11. The program includes both local presenters, as well as many who will travel to Montréal for the event. New faculty … Continue reading →
Posted in External events | Leave a comment
← Older posts
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
