The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Category Archives: Internal affairs
← Older posts
Linguistics Colloquium: Michela Ippolito “How similar is similar enough?”
Posted on February 16, 2015 by admin
Time: 4:15 Where: 4:15 Abstract: In this talk I investigate the issue of the context-dependence of counterfactual conditionals and how the context constrains similarity in selecting the right set of worlds necessary in order to arrive at their correct truth-conditions. … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged semantics , Talk | Leave a comment
Colloquium: Dr.  Sverre Stausland Johnsen on Vowel reduction in Old English and its origin in phonetic error
Posted on February 6, 2015 by admin
When: Friday February 13th 4:15pm Where: H-527   Abstract In Old English, an original unstressed long *’ō’ is in some morphological categories reflected as variation between ‘u’ and ‘a’. The traditional explanation for this variation is that *’ō’ generally developed … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged old english , vowel reduction | Leave a comment
Cognitive Science Colloquium: Music, Speech and Sound in the Brain
Posted on November 18, 2014 by admin
Abstract: Since the time of Paul Broca, methods for looking at brain structure and brain function have become powerful tools to answer questions about cognition. In this talk, we will discuss how modern scientists use these tools, and the advantages … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged cognitive science , music | Leave a comment
LSA COLLOQUIUM 4: RAJ SINGH
Posted on November 6, 2014 by admin
  Abstract: One of the defining properties of presuppositions is that they are inferences that survive when a sentence is embedded under negation. For example, “John will bring his wetsuit” and “John won’t bring his wetsuit” both presuppose that John … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged presuppositions , Raj , Singh | Leave a comment
Colloquium 2: Laura Grestenberger
Posted on September 20, 2014 by admin
Abstract: Anagnostopoulou (2003) argues in her seminal paper “Participles and Voice” that the properties of Modern Greek and German participles are determined by different levels of incorporation of functional structure: in target state participles, the nominalizer attaches directly to the … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged colloquium , Grestenberger , indo-european-deponents , Laura , participles | Leave a comment
Elections Results
Posted on March 26, 2014 by admin
President: Lauren McIntosh VP Internal: Samara Wiseman VP Finance: Matthew Schuurman VP Academic: Liz da Silva MA councillor: Sarya Majdalani VP Communications: Gianluca Cefis VP Social: Nicolas Desmarais VP external is… a tie between Emily Crilly and Sabrina Gaiser
Posted in Internal affairs | Leave a comment
LSA Elections
Posted on February 26, 2014 by admin
It’s election time again and most of our current members are graduating.  We need you!   The deal is this:  if you’re even the slightest bit interested, then you must join us!   Don’t worry about the positions and roles … Continue reading →
Posted in Internal affairs | Leave a comment
Praat Workshop and General Assembly
Posted on February 22, 2014 by admin
Praat Workshop Wednesday February 26th at 1015am in H661-2.  There will be coffee and breakfast snack.  It will be from 10:15 to 11:15am General Assembly Thursday Feb 27th at 8pm in H661-2.  We will be talking about upcoming elections in … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs | Leave a comment
Dean’s Awards
Call for Nominations
Posted on January 13, 2014 by admin
Attachment: Deans Awards Call for Nominations 2013-14-1   Dear Colleagues,   As you are certainly aware, The Dean of Arts and Science offers annual awards to recognize outstanding contributions to the Faculty by faculty members and staff.  For faculty members … Continue reading →
Posted in Internal affairs | Leave a comment
Call for tutors
Posted on September 13, 2013 by admin
Hi everyone, welcome to 2013. We are looking for new tutors to be added to our tutor bank. You can check out the requirements and sign up through the link at the top of the page!
Posted in Internal affairs | Leave a comment
← Older posts
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
