The Linguistics Student Association of Concordia University
Skip to content
Home
About the LSA
Activities & Services
Peer tutoring
Tutor bank
Request a tutor
Become a tutor
Contact
Category Archives: Talks @ Concordia
← Older posts
Linguistics Colloquium: Todd Clary
Posted on April 3, 2015 by admin
Where/when: April 10 th,  4:15pm in H527 Abstract: Vedic √vŕ̥dh
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Hannes A. Fellner The position of Tocharian in Indo-European:  Evidence from nominal morphology
Posted on March 30, 2015 by admin
When: April 7th, 4:15pm, in H-527   Abstract: Fellner_Concordia_Abstract  
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Michela Ippolito “How similar is similar enough?”
Posted on February 16, 2015 by admin
Time: 4:15 Where: 4:15 Abstract: In this talk I investigate the issue of the context-dependence of counterfactual conditionals and how the context constrains similarity in selecting the right set of worlds necessary in order to arrive at their correct truth-conditions. … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged semantics , Talk | Leave a comment
Colloquium: Dr.  Sverre Stausland Johnsen on Vowel reduction in Old English and its origin in phonetic error
Posted on February 6, 2015 by admin
When: Friday February 13th 4:15pm Where: H-527   Abstract In Old English, an original unstressed long *’ō’ is in some morphological categories reflected as variation between ‘u’ and ‘a’. The traditional explanation for this variation is that *’ō’ generally developed … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged old english , vowel reduction | Leave a comment
Linguistics Colloquium: Jonathan Bobaljik
Posted on January 22, 2015 by admin
(Im)possible suppletive patterns The comparative and superlative corresponding to good are suppletive: better and best rather than hypothetical, but unacceptable, *gooder, *goodest. In a large, cross-linguistic survey of suppletion in adjectives (Bobaljik 2012), it turns out that some patterns of … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Cognitive Science Colloquium: Music, Speech and Sound in the Brain
Posted on November 18, 2014 by admin
Abstract: Since the time of Paul Broca, methods for looking at brain structure and brain function have become powerful tools to answer questions about cognition. In this talk, we will discuss how modern scientists use these tools, and the advantages … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged cognitive science , music | Leave a comment
LSA COLLOQUIUM 4: RAJ SINGH
Posted on November 6, 2014 by admin
  Abstract: One of the defining properties of presuppositions is that they are inferences that survive when a sentence is embedded under negation. For example, “John will bring his wetsuit” and “John won’t bring his wetsuit” both presuppose that John … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged presuppositions , Raj , Singh | Leave a comment
Public Lecture: CORE SOCIAL COGNITION; Dr. ELIZABETH SPELKE
Posted on October 7, 2014 by admin
Abstract: Mature human cognition is complex and variable, both across contemporary cultures and over human history, but human cognitive development proceeds in a more predictable pattern, especially in infants and young children. Studies of infants’ cognitive abilities in non-social domains … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged Social Cognition talks | Leave a comment
Colloquium: An Introduction to Neuroscience For Cognitive Science Students
Posted on September 28, 2014 by admin
  The Concordia Linguistics Students Association (LSA) and the Concordia Centre for Cognitive Science  will host Dr. Mabel Chong (PhD McGill, 2009) for  an introductory-level  discussion of the neuroscience aspects of  Poeppel’s (2012) paper on the “the relation between the … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Talks @ Concordia | Leave a comment
Colloquium 2: Laura Grestenberger
Posted on September 20, 2014 by admin
Abstract: Anagnostopoulou (2003) argues in her seminal paper “Participles and Voice” that the properties of Modern Greek and German participles are determined by different levels of incorporation of functional structure: in target state participles, the nominalizer attaches directly to the … Continue reading →
Posted in Academic , Internal affairs , Talks @ Concordia | Tagged colloquium , Grestenberger , indo-european-deponents , Laura , participles | Leave a comment
← Older posts
Welcome
Find out about us here .
Contact
Email: concordia.lsa@gmail.com
Facebook: here
Student lounge: H-665
Subscribe to the mailing lists
Everything LSA: lingthing
Talks only: lingmont
Doesn't work? Get help here .
Past posts
Academic (44)
External events (19)
Internal affairs (33)
Social (28)
Talks @ Concordia (44)
Uncategorized (8)
Proudly powered by WordPress.
