CUPFA’s Commandments | CUPFA
Skip to content
Professional Development
Deadlines
Teaching Application Form
News
Quick Links:
CUPFA’s Commandments
CUPFA’s dozen Commandments
1.    Always check FIRST with the Association before responding to unusual requests from our employer (Human Resources, Department Chairs etc…). Contact the CUPFA Vice President Collective Agreement and Grievance. Do not forget always send the Association a copy of any correspondence you send to the employer.
2.    Fill in your PT Application to Teach Form on time and completely (e.g. list section number of courses); send only one (same) copy to each Department you are applying to and to the Association.
3.    Do not fill out surveys or respond to correspondence sent to you by the employer unless you have first heard from the Association.
4.    Depending on the challenge, make sure to immediately fill out an “incident report”: with Security if you are being threatened; with Environmental Health and Safety if your health is at risk or you are injured; with the Dean’s Office if you have a question about a student’s academic integrity. You need to keep a paper trail in all cases.
5.    If you cannot teach because of a health issue or other illness, ensure you advise your Chair and then download the short-term disability form from the HR website. You are entitled to 100% of your salary for the first month and 85% of your salary for the remaining weeks of your contract.
6.    If you need to be away, protect your seniority and do not forget to request a leave of absence in writing from your Chair indicating the date you will be away and the date you will return. You need to be on contract before you can request a leave of absence.
7.    To ensure coverage, complete the enrolment forms sent from the Benefit’s Office in HR by the deadlines for the Medical Drug and Health Plans. Depending on your seniority credits, you will either be covered with the Quebec RAMQ provincial drug insurance or, be entitled (you need 50 credits or above of seniority) to the comprehensive Medical and Drug plans.
8.    Do not forget to obtain your funds in the Concordia Pension Plan if you leave the University and do not return to teach. Your funds are portable to another plan. If you continue to teach, you can still draw on your Concordia Pension Plan and not retire. Drawing on your pension plan does not mean you are “retired”. Depending on your age, ensure you apply for the two government Canadian and Quebec Plans as well!
9.    You are entitled to tuition waivers for yourself and family members (partner, spouse, children). Contact the Association and find out how it works. You and family members are entitled to courses offered in Continuing Education (language, computer courses) and, if you have at least 50 credits of seniority, you are entitled to any course/program offered by the University including all courses given in Continuing Education. Call the Association for procedures to follow.
10.    Find out who your PT faculty Department representatives are. Who sits on the PT Hiring Committee? Curriculum Committee? Your Department Council? Who represents you in Faculty Council? Senate? Board of Governors?
11.    Read all correspondence sent to you from the Association: email notices, messages, our newsletter CUPFA News and, make it a habit to consult our website, where important information is disseminated ( www.cupfa.org ).
12.    Take the time to read the CUPFA Collective Agreement. Familarise yourself with the Articles that serve your interests. If you would like training or an information session on the CUPFA Collective Agreement, let us know. We are available to make sure you understand what your rights and obligations are.
Me Patrice Blais
VP Collective Agreement and Grievance
blais.patrice@gmail.com
« Back to Top
Home
About
Mandate & History
Executive 2017-20
Committees
Staff
News & Events
News
Events
Videos
Media Coverage – Negotiations
Collective Agreement
Pensions and Retirement
Pension Information
Retirement Planning
Professional Development
About PD
CUPFA Grants
Travel and Expenses
Grant Reports
Small Claims
PD – FAQ
Office of Research
Forms
Publications
Newsletters
Survival Guide
Commandments
Multi-Section Courses
Concordia Resources
FAQ
Contact Us
Search for:
Recent Posts
Official Signing of 5th Collective Agreement
Words and Public Space, Andrew Forster, Erin Moure...
Campus Equity Week article in The Concordian
Instability of Work a Cause of Stress for...
BONNIE BAXTER wins Charles-Biddle Award 2017
Post Archives
Post Archives
Contact Info
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday
9 am to 4 pm
2150 Bishop, S-K-310
Montreal, Quebec  H3G 1M8
Telephone
514-848-2424-3691
Facsimile
514-848-3648
Copyright © CUPFA. All Rights Reserved.
