Home
About Us
Our Mission
ASFA Executives
ASFA Council
ASFA Member Associations
ASFA Standing Committees
Student Life
ASFA Annual General Election
ASFA Awards
Frosh
Interdisciplinary Academic Journal
ASFA Presents: Midnight Breakfast
Documents
Minutes
Resources
Multimedia
News
Opinions
ASFA Executives
Executive Body of 2016-2017
Julia Sutera Sardo
President
(514) 848-2424 ext. 5476
E-mail: president@asfa.ca
Steven Tutino
VP Internal Affairs and Administration
(514) 848-2424 ext. 5832
E-mail: internal@asfa.ca
Francesco Valente
VP Finance
(514) 848-2424 ext. 5832
E-mail: finance@asfa.ca
Gregory Bedell
VP Academic and Loyola Affairs
(514) 848-2424 ext. 7873
E-mail: academic@asfa.ca
Chris Czich
VP Social
(514) 848-2424 ext. 7308
E-mail: social@asfa.ca
(vacant)
VP Communications and Promotions
(514) 848-2424 ext. 7966
E-mail: communications@asfa.ca
Bianca Bruzzesse
VP External Affairs and Sustainability
(514) 848-2424 ext. 5476
E-mail: communityoutreach@asfa.ca
 
Former ASFA Executive
2016-2017
ASFA Executive Mandate Description
President
The President shall be one (1) of three (3) signing authorities of the Association. They shall also be one (1) of three (3) authorities responsible for overseeing any hiring within the Association. They will act as the Chief Executive Officer, be the official representative and chief spokesperson, delegate responsibility as they see fit and be the primary liaison between ASFA and other University bodies. They will not have authority over the other Vice‑Presidents and assumes equal power within the Association. They will sit as an ex-­officio member of all Standing Committees.
VP Internal Affairs and Administration
The VP Internal Affairs and Administration shall be one (1) of three (3) signing authorities of the Association. They shall also be one (1) of three (3) authorities responsible for overseeing any hiring within the Association. They will be the primary liaison between ASFA and its Member Associations. Their duties shall also include assuring the official registration of ASFA’s Member Associations and shall also see to it that they receive any and all information that is pertinent to their operation throughout the Academic Year. They are responsible for addressing Member Association needs as well as issues. They hold each of the Member Association’s By-Laws on file and are responsible for ensuring they do not contradict ASFA’s By-­Laws or annexes. They facilitate and oversee all elections of the Member Associations.
VP Finance
The VP Finance shall be the primary spokesperson for all the Association’s financial matters and will be responsible for all of the Association’s financial negotiations. They shall be one (1) of three (3) signing authorities of the Association. They shall also be one (1) of three (3) authorities responsible for overseeing any hiring within the Association. The VP Finance shall chair and convene all committees created to address the allocation of funds. They shall also be responsible for the keeping in order all the financial books and documents of the Association, and will report to Council on any use of funds by the Finance Committee.
VP Academic and Loyola Affairs
The VP Academic and Loyola Affairs shall be the primary spokesperson of the Association when dealing will all matters related to the curriculum within the Faculty. They shall ex-officio be designated by the Association as a member of the Arts & Science Faculty Council and its steering committee and shall report back to the Academic Committee and Council on all relevant matters discussed at said committees. They are responsible for ensuring that the best interests of Loyola students within the Faculty are represented within ASFA.
VP Social
The VP Social shall be the primary spokesperson for all the Association’s social events and activities. They shall chair and convene all committees created to address the Association’s social events and activities. They shall be responsible for organizing a fall orientation session for new Arts and Science students which will facilitate in community building and help new students transition into University. They shall be responsible for organizing events throughout the year that cater to the diversity of all Arts and Science students.
VP Communications and Promotions
The VP Communications and Promotions shall be the primary member responsible to advertise any and all matters of the Association as mandated by the Standing Committees or Council, particularly those matters which need to be communicated to the general membership. The VP Communications and Promotions shall be responsible for the external marketing of ASFA to the community and to external businesses. The VP Communications and Promotions shall be responsible for creating, evaluating, implementing and periodically revising ASFA’s marketing and public relations plan. These matters shall include but are not limited to: elections, Referendums, social events, orientation activities, and meetings. The VP Communications and Promotions shall have the responsibility of supervising the creation of any and all of the Association’s publications, social media presence and promotional material. They shall also chair and convene all committees created to address the communications capacity of the Association. They shall also be responsible for the maintenance and regular updating of the ASFA website and all social media. The VP Communications and Promotions will ensure that the communication systems in place between Executives and Councillors are efficient and in working order.
VP External Affairs and Sustainability
The VP External Affairs and Sustainability will be the primary spokesperson for the Association outside the University and the primary liaison between the Association and all bodies external to the University. They may also establish or maintain relations with organizations outside the University that have similar goals and interests as ASFA. They shall be responsible for seeking and obtaining sponsorships and fundraising initiatives for all ASFA related events as necessary. They shall also be responsible for ensuring ASFA events and activities are conducted with adequate waste management. They shall also provide the event organizers with advice on the overall sustainability of the events. They shall also chair and convene all committees created to address sustainability within the Association.
Election of the ASFA Executive
Each Officer shall be elected at the ASFA Annual General Elections or By-­Elections of the Association or as per Article 145 of the By-­Laws. Each Executive office must be filled by a Member who has been elected individually.
The following are not eligible to run for the ASFA Executive
Current or former chief electoral officers of the Association;
Current or former members of the Judicial Committee;
Current or former Chairpersons of Council;
Current or former Chief electoral officers of the Concordia Student Union;
Current members of the Judicial Board of the Concordia student Union; or
Current Chairpersons of the Concordia Student Union Council of Representatives.
Duration of Term
All Members elected to the Executive Body will be in office for one (1) Academic Year.
Contact Information
Downtown: 2070 Mackay Street, Montreal, QC, H3G 2J1
Office Hours: Mon - Thu, 9am - 5pm / Fri, 9am - 3:30pm
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 7966
Arts and Science Federation of Associations | Copyright 2017 | All Rights Reserved
error: Content Protected
