Home
About Us
Our Mission
ASFA Executives
ASFA Council
ASFA Member Associations
ASFA Standing Committees
Student Life
ASFA Annual General Election
ASFA Awards
Frosh
Interdisciplinary Academic Journal
ASFA Presents: Midnight Breakfast
Documents
Minutes
Resources
Multimedia
News
Opinions
ASFA Council
The ASFA Council of Representatives acts as the Board of Directors of ASFA.
Composition
Council shall be composed of:
One Representative from each Member Association officially recognized by the Council of Representatives (as per Article 45), elected or appointed (in accordance with Annex C).
Five additional (5) Representatives, referred to as Independent Councillors, who will be elected from the Regular Members during the Annual General Elections or By-­Elections, and may not sit on the executive of the Association or any Member Association.
 
Duration of Terms in Office
A Councillor, when possible, must be elected by their Member Association and shall sit for the duration of time determined by the Member Association in question, up until the end of the Academic Year in which they were elected, or until their resignation.
The five Independent Councillors will serve a one year term beginning June 1st, and ending May 31st of the subsequent year until their replacements, elected at the Annual General Elections, take office, or until the their resignation or removal from office.
Tasks and Powers
The tasks and powers of the Council of Representatives may only be properly exercised in the course of a duly convened meeting of the Council. In particular the Council shall do or cause the following to be done:
Formulate the policy for the Association;
Approve the annual budgets for the Association and its Member Associations;
Ratify appointments of the Association;
Enact, amend or repeal policies, regulations and resolutions which shall be binding on the Association, its Member Associations, Officers, employees, and all others under its authority. Regulations shall be policies of a permanent nature which may only be adopted, amended or rescinded by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of Council at a duly convened meeting. Policy, unless otherwise specified, may be enacted, amended or repealed by Simple Majority;
Enact, amend or repeal policies, regulations and resolutions to ensure its own proper functioning;
Enact, amend or repeal policies, regulations and resolutions so that the Association conform to any policy, regulation or resolution passed in a duly convened meeting of the Members, and to the results of duly conducted Referendum which reach quorum; and
Such other acts as afforded to the Association by law which do not contravene these By-Laws.
Meetings
ASFA Council shall be convened for one (1) Regular Meeting on the second Thursday of each month of the Academic Year. No meetings will be held on July or August. The June and September Regular Meetings shall be held on the third Thursday of the month. Council, by a two-­‐‑thirds (2/3) majority vote at a duly convened meeting, may change the day of the week of these meetings, but not their frequency.
The agenda for all regularly scheduled Council meetings will be distributed to all members of Council at least five (5) Juridical Days in advance of any such meeting.
Any of the Standing Committees, any three members of the Executive Body or any three Councillors may call a Special Meeting of the Council of Representatives. Three (3) Juridical Days’ notice must be given to each member of Council.
The ASFA Council of Representatives shall be deemed to have met quorum if at least one-third (1/3) of its Councillors are present at said meeting.
Councillors.The maximum number of Councillors is stated to be forty (40) in the Letters Patent due to any potential Member Associations that want to be created or revived. The number of sitting Councillors shall be the number of officially recognized Member Associations plus the number of Independent Councillor seats. Quorum for Council shall be calculated using the number of sitting Councillors.
Chairperson
The primary function of the Chairperson is to uphold and ensure that the By-Laws are adhered to and that all ASFA Council meetings are chaired in accordance with the latest edition “Robert'ʹs Rules of Order Newly Revised”, and shall act on behalf of Council when mandated to do so.
The Chairperson shall coordinate the activities of ASFA Council and is responsible for the convening of all regular ASFA Council meetings. As well, The Chairperson shall be responsible for forming and distributing the agenda for the Council meetings.
The following are ineligible to serve as chair of the Association:
Current or former members of the ASFA Executive;
Current or former Councillors;
Current or former executives of any ASFA Member Associations;
Any ASFA member who currently holds a position within ASFA or one of its Member Associations; e) Current or former members of the CSU Council of Representatives; and
Current or former members of the CSU executive.
 
Secretary
The responsibilities of the Secretary shall be limited to the recording of the minutes of the ASFA Council meetings and submitting a final version of the minutes ten (10) Juridical Days before the following regular Council meeting.
The following are ineligible to serve as secretary of the Association:
Any ASFA member who currently holds a position within ASFA or one of its Member Associations; and
Current members of the CSU Council of Representatives or CSU executive;
Council Chairperson: Caitlin Robinson
E-mail: chair [at] asfa.ca
Council Secretary: Kayla Miller
E-mail: secretary [at] asfa.ca
Regular Council Meetings: As per the ASFA’s By-Laws, the following meetings will be held during the 2016 – 2017 academic year
June 16th, 2016
September 15th, 2016
October 13th, 2016
November 10th, 2016
December 8th, 2016
January 12th, 2016
February 9th, 2016
March 9th, 2016
April 13th, 2016
May 11th, 2016
Document shortcuts:
Minutes |  Annex A  |  Annex B  |  Annex C  |  ASFA By-Laws
 
Contact Information
Downtown: 2070 Mackay Street, Montreal, QC, H3G 2J1
Office Hours: Mon - Thu, 9am - 5pm / Fri, 9am - 3:30pm
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 7966
Arts and Science Federation of Associations | Copyright 2017 | All Rights Reserved
error: Content Protected
