Home
About Us
Our Mission
ASFA Executives
ASFA Council
ASFA Member Associations
ASFA Standing Committees
Student Life
ASFA Annual General Election
ASFA Awards
Frosh
Interdisciplinary Academic Journal
ASFA Presents: Midnight Breakfast
Documents
Minutes
Resources
Multimedia
News
Opinions
ASFA General Elections
As the representative student body of the Faculty of Arts and Science at Concordia University, the ASFA Council meets on a regular basis throughout the academic year to defend student interests and organize events within the Faculty of Arts and Science. Every year, students registered within the Faculty of Arts and Science are given the opportunity to select their executive through the holding of elections.
More details
In every upcoming election, ALL Executive Positions are open for election, including:
President
Vice President of Internal and Administration
Vice President of Finance
Vice President of Communications and Promotions
Vice President of Social Affairs
Vice President of Academic & Loyola Affairs
Vice President of External Affairs & Sustainability
Additionally, Five (5) independent councillor seats are available on ASFA Council, and two (2) students appointed to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Council (one student from SGW campus, one from Loyola).
As a prospective candidate, there are several duties you must fulfill to be accepted as a candidate in the upcoming election:
You must complete the contact information sheet.
You must acquire 25 signatures of reference from students within the Arts and Science faculty who support your nomination.
You must complete and return the nomination form to the ASFA office no later than the appointed deadline.
Your primary contact will be the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) . The CEO is an independent and objective individual responsible for the administration of the electoral process. Should you have any questions or concerns about the election, the CEO will be your primary source of information.
The following are not eligible to run for these positions:
Former and Current Chief Electoral Officers of the Association;
Current and former members of the Judicial Committee;
Current and former Chairpersons of Council;
Current and former Chief Electoral Officers of the Concordia Student Union;
Current and former members of the Judicial Board of the Concordia Student Union;
Current and former Chairpersons of the Concordia Student Union Council of Representative.
Important
Upon completion of the nomination form, you will be provided with a copy of ASFA electoral rules and regulations, a copy of the ASFA By-Laws, and any other documents that contain election rules. It is imperative that you review these rules and regulations. These are important rules that you should be aware of and failure to abide by these rules can result in the disqualification of your candidacy by the CEO. These regulations ensure that a fair and open election takes place. An information session will be organized before the campaign period begins to clarify any of these regulations.
Contact Information
Downtown: 2070 Mackay Street, Montreal, QC, H3G 2J1
Office Hours: Mon - Thu, 9am - 5pm / Fri, 9am - 3:30pm
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 7966
Arts and Science Federation of Associations | Copyright 2017 | All Rights Reserved
error: Content Protected
