Home
About Us
Our Mission
ASFA Executives
ASFA Council
ASFA Member Associations
ASFA Standing Committees
Student Life
ASFA Annual General Election
ASFA Awards
Frosh
Interdisciplinary Academic Journal
ASFA Presents: Midnight Breakfast
Documents
Minutes
Resources
Multimedia
News
Opinions
Awards
ASFA Scholarships
How to apply
Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Concordia Community
Award for Academic Achievement
Meghna Atwal Award
Damond Hartung Award
Scholarships offered by ASFA are awarded every school year. To apply for the following scholarships, please email us at academic@asfa.ca.
This award is given to a student who has created a sense of community at Concordia by contributing to student life and has demonstrated that their efforts have had positive impact on the Concordia community. The minimum required GPA for this award is 3.0. The recipient of this award shall receive $300. Four (4) awards are given out annually.
**Students interested in this award must send a cover letter detailing their contribution to the Concordia community, how their efforts positively impacted Concordia students, and their motivation for undertaking the project.
*Students must also send the latest copy of their transcript. An unofficial version will suffice.
This award is designed to recognize an arts and science student who has excelled in their academic career at Concordia. The minimum required GPA for this award is 3.8. The recipient of this award shall receive $300. Four (4) awards are given out annually.
*Students must also send the latest copy of their transcript. An unofficial version will suffice.
This award was created to honour the life of Meghna Atwal who contributed to ASFA for three years and showed a dedication to her community by creating new projects. Applicants interested should have contributed to the Arts and Science community by bringing novel additions to student life and/or academics. Applicants must also be registered in a double major, honors, or specialization. There is no minimum GPA requirement for this award. The recipient shall receive $400. One (1) award is given out annually.
**Students interested in this award must send a cover letter detailing their contribution to the Concordia community, how their efforts positively impacted Concordia students, and their motivation for undertaking the project.
*Students must also send the latest copy of their transcript. An unofficial version will suffice.
This award was created to honour the life of Damon Hartung who contributed to ASFA for three years and showed dedication to his community by creating new projects. Applicants interested should have contributed to the Arts and Science community by bringing novel additions to student life and/or academics while remaining in strong academic standing. The minimum required GPA for this award is 3.0. The winner shall receive $600. One (1) award is given out annually.
**Students interested in this award must send a cover letter detailing their contribution to the Concordia community, how their efforts positively impacted Concordia students, and their motivation for undertaking the project.
*Students must also send the latest copy of their transcript. An unofficial version will suffice.
Other Sources of Funding
Quebec Mobility Bursary
Through limited funding made available by Québec’s Ministère de l'éducation et de l'enseignement supérieur et de la recherche, qualified students studying outside Quebec as part of their Concordia degree program can apply for a Quebec Mobility Bursary. Although this Bursary is funded by the Ministère, it is administered jointly by Concordia International and the Concordia Financial Aid and Awards Office.  Complete the Quebec Mobility Bursary online application form by April 1 for the following Summer and/or Fall Semester or August 1 for the following Winter Semester.
Concordia Undergraduate Bursaries
Every academic year, generally as a full-time student, you are eligible for internal funding - aside of the Quebec Loans and Bursaries program. A popular resource is the Concordia In-Course Bursary program, which provides any student with good academic standing and financial need a helping hand in their studies; some bursaries are also accorded considering merit, background, community involvement and/or specifically to a program.  The application process is completed through the MyConcordia Portal, under My Student Center -> Finance -> Apply for Bursaries or Scholarships.
Superkutz Scholarship Foundation
The Superkutz Scholarship Foundation awards scholarships to deserving students from the Greater Montreal area on the basis of a) academic achievement AND b) financial need. Applicants must be: no older than 25 years old; a Canadian citizen or landed immigrant residing in Quebec; registered for full-time post-secondary academic or vocational studies; demonstrate a need for financial assistance. Personal circumstances and/or challenges faced by the applicant will be considered during the selection process in order to confirm financial need.
Contact Information
Downtown: 2070 Mackay Street, Montreal, QC, H3G 2J1
Office Hours: Mon - Thu, 9am - 5pm / Fri, 9am - 3:30pm
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 7966
Arts and Science Federation of Associations | Copyright 2017 | All Rights Reserved
error: Content Protected
