Home
Who we are
Our Brands
Events
Contact
FINANCE &
INVESTMENT
STUDENTS'
ASSOCIATION
SHAPING THE NEXT GENERATION
OF FINANCE PROFESSIONALS
Don't miss our upcoming JMSX event! Check out our events calendar for more information.
The Finance and Investment Students’ Association (FISA) along with its subsidiaries, the John Molson Investments’ Society (JMIS) and the John Molson Trading League (JMTL), seeks to shape the next generation of finance professionals by offering conferences, workshops firm tours, networking cocktails and case competitions.
OUR MISSION
What we stand for at FISA
As the largest finance association in Quebec, we act as a resource to over 2,000 undergraduate students. Our aim is to help bridge the growing gap that exists between what students are taught in the classroom and what they need to know before entering the workforce.
VISION
We hope to be a resource and a guide to new and current finance and business students alike. This year, we updated our existing events and created new ones that include more current industry trends and themes to better prepare students for the ever-changing landscape of the financial services industry.
Read more
IN NUMBERS
2000+
Finance Students
30+
Events Per Year
+10
Years Running
DISCOVER OUR BRANDS
We try our best to offer the most value not only to Finance students, but for all students of JMSB.
CASAJMSB is your undergraduate student association at the John Molson School of Business. Our six associations, eight committees and CASA executive team are composed of over 200 student volunteers who organize events and manage services for the students of JMSB. While the curriculum at JMSB prepares you with the theoretical knowledge to get started in the real world, there is no experience equivalent to getting involved with CASA and its subsidiaries.  Whether this is your first year, last year, or somewhere in between, a big part of making the most out of your time at JMSB will be the commitment that you make to your studies and your involvement with extracurricular activities.
The Finance and Investment Students’ Association (FISA) represents the finance student body at the John Molson School of Business. FISA, alongside its subsidiaries, the John Molson Investments’ Society (JMIS) and the John Molson Trading League (JMTL), seek to shape the next generation of finance professionals by offering conferences, workshops, firm tours, networking cocktails, weekly seminars and competitions.
JMIS is committed to serve as an access point for all students on campus interested in learning about both the financial markets and the financial services industry. In their bi-weekly meetings they hold open discussions, equity analysis/valuation workshops, a stock pitch program, and host industry speakers to delve deeper into various topics and interests. Additionally, every semester, the association hired 4 analysts who are required to write and publish articles on the JMIS website and conduct research within their assigned industry.
The John Molson Trading League holds weekly competitions at the John Dobson Formula Growth Trading Lab using the Rotman Interactive Trader software. The league is designed to introduce students to equity and commodity trading, and different market structures. The league encourages individuals to build trading models on Excel. Furthermore, trading algorithms, built by students, will be introduced this year to compete against other students. One of the Trading League’s functions is to recruit and train traders for next year’s Concordia University delegation at the Rotman International Trading Competition, where Concordia received a 1st place ranking in the S&P Capital IQ Equity Valuation Case, as well as a 5th place ranking overall this year.
We represent over 20 percent of the student population and are one of the largest Finance student associations in Quebec. With a vision of integrating students, faculty-staff, as well as external partners, our mandate is to integrate finance students into the industry’s environment through mentorship and guidance.
The aforementioned services provide students with the opportunity to gain practical experience and knowledge beyond the scope of theory. The aforementioned services provide students with the opportunity to gain practical experience and knowledge beyond the scope of theory.
Learn More Aout FISA
SIGN UP
New student? Looking to get involved? Want updates on our events? Sign up to our newsletter to get news and updates to take full advantage of FISA during your Finance undergraduate degree.
Leave this field empty if you're human:
SPONSORS
Affiliates
CASA-JMSB
Finance Major
Kenneth Woods Portfolio Management Program
Career Management Services
John Molson School of Business
Contact Us
Contact us: +1 514 848 2424 x 7437
Fax: 514-848-7436 attn FISA
Write us: contact@fisaonline.ca
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.433
Montreal, Quebec,
Canada H3G 1M8
Find us here:
Market quotes are powered by TradingView.com
© 2017 FISA. All Rights Reserved. Made in Montreal.
