Skip to content
Home
Our Team
Past Teams
Services
Book Exchange
Rental Program
Health & Wellness
Peer Mentorship
Internal Business Competition
Online Lecture Program
Guidance Service
Events
Contact Us
Sponsors
FAQ
Academic Deadlines
Co-op Program
Course Compatibility
General Questions
Getting Involved
Major/Minor Related
Resources for Students
Student Exchange Program
Testimonials
John Molson Academic Committee
Who We Are
Who We Are
John Molson Academic Committee
Who We Are
WHO WE ARE
The John Molson Academic Committee (JMAC), a subcommittee under the Commerce & Administration Students's Association (CASA),
is tasked with facilitating the educational process for the JMSB student body by providing academic resources.
WHAT WE DO
Workshops
JMAC offers a variety of academic workshops that relate to different topics of student interest such as career planning, stress management, body language and much more!  Like our Facebook page to find more about our workshops and other services!
Academic Services
JMAC provides academic services and events to all undergraduate students, such as the Peer Mentorship Program, Groups, Online Lecture Program, Online Book Exchange, Calculator/I-Clicker Rental Program and the Internal Case Competition.
Community
JMAC is a student run organization operating as a subsidiary of the Commerce and Administration Students’ Association (CASA). We believe that it is a privilege to be involved within our school community and be given the opportunity to enhance the university experience of JMSB students.
WHY US?
University is all about learning and building upon your skills. JMAC is here to make learning
easier for you and to offer you opportunities to further enhance your academic experience at JMSB!
 
ROAD TO SUCCESS: Take advantage of our numerous programs and services designed
to make your academic year a good one!
 
WE'RE HERE FOR YOU: Our team's mission is to revolutionize the way we learn here at JMSB
and we are committed to providing students with the necessary resources to achieve academic excellence.
 
GET INVOLVED!: University is the time to expand your horizons and explore new opportunities.
Getting involved is extremely rewarding and enriching. There are your last few years as a student,
make the most of your university experience! To get involved as a mentor, visit our volunteer page
 
FOLLOW US
STAY UP TO DATE
John Molson Academic Committee
1450 Rue Guy, Montreal, QC S1.447
(514) 848-2424 ext: 2800
info@jmacjmsb.ca
Newsletter
First Name
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Contact Us
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Sydney by aThemes.
