Write to us: info@jsba.ca
PMI
JMSB
myConcordia
ConneXions
Our Department
Toggle navigation
Home
About Us
Who we are
Team | 2017 – 18
Team | 2016 – 17
Team | 2015 – 16
What’s New
Academics
Supply Chain Operations Management
Business Technology Management
Data Intelligence
Our Department
Events
View JSBA Calendar
Upcoming JSBA Events
Others
View CASA Calendar
Upcoming JMSB Events
Concordia Event List
Recruitment
Contact Us
What's New?
09-09-2016
JSBA kicks off the new year with a new website
08-09-2016
JSBA welcomes everyone to Fall 2016
Show All
Upcoming Events
About us
JSBA strives to become an association that is recognized for the value it add to students’ university experience, as well as for the professional, career, and growth opportunities it provides to any undergraduate student at JMSB, Concordia, or the Montreal community.
Read More
Being part of JSBA means developing new skills, networking with professionals in the field, and connecting with students. There is never a dull moment when working with hard-working and passionate students, who devote their time to enrich other students’ university experience.
Romana Kazi, B.Comm Student | John Molson School of Business
At JMLC event hosted by JSBA, I got the opportunity to network with professionals and had a better understanding on how supply chain is integral in every field. To sum up, I would recommend every SCOM and BTM student to go pay a visit to JSBA.
Herve Manzi, BComm Student | John Molson School of Business
“Being part of JSBA allowed me to step out of my comfort zone and into a brand new environment. Throughout my term as Co-President, I was constantly challenged, pushed to new boundaries, and of course, met new friends along the way. I am truly grateful to have been a part of JSBA in 2014-2015. I wouldn’t be where I am today without this experience.”
William Chan, Distribution Business Analyst | Air Canada
“Attending JSBA’s Meet & Greet event at the beginning of the Fall semester was a great way for me to mingle with SCOM and BTM students, as well as meet the members of the executive team. I was able to learn about the resources provided by JSBA and build lasting relationships with young professionals like myself.”
Gabrielle Moroz, BComm Student | John Molson School of Business
Academics
Supply Chain Operations Management
Business Technology Management
Data Intelligence (Minor)
SCOM / BTM Department
Concordia Academic Dates
SCOM / BTM  Graduates Interviews
Useful Links
JMSB Programs
JMSB Student Advising
JMSB Career Management Services
JMSB Computer Labs
JMSB Computers, Printing and Study Space
JMSB Equipment Loan and Rental
Life in JMSB
The Molson Building
JMSB Latest News
JMSB Student Life
Associations and Clubs
Case Competition Program
JMSB Accolades
Join the conversation on
Meet CASA
The Commerce and Administration Students’ Association (CASA) is a student-run organization that represents undergraduates who are pursuing their studies at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB). We are committed to serving the needs of the JMSB student body and act in its best interest. CASA provides its students with a wide range of academic support and extracurricular activities designed to enhance their university experience. No matter the discipline, the primary objective is to offer JMSB students an opportunity to bridge the gap between theory and practice in order to properly prepare them for their future. The most important aspect to note is that we at CASA are always willing to lend a helping hand to each and every JMSB student.
Visit CASA
Associations and Committees
Sponsors and Partners
Follow us:
Contact Us
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St, MB 4.431,
Montréal, QC, H3H 0A1
Telephone: +1 (514) 848-2424 x7465
Web: www.jsba.ca
E-mail: info@jsba.ca
Important Links
Home page
What’s New
About Us
Upcoming Events
Graduates Interviews
Our Department
About Us
JSBA focuses on strengthening the link between students’ academic performance and their passion for their program. To facilitate this connection, JSBA organizes a variety of events and initiatives, such as work- shops, conferences and networking events. The association’s mission revolves around providing academic support as well as resources to students in order to enhance their education.
© Copyright 2016 - John Molson Supply Chain and Business Technology Association.
