 
Toggle navigation
Skip to content
Home
Outgoing
Incoming
Mayflower Project
FAQ
The John Molson International committee
CELEBRATING OUR 10 YEAR ANNIVERSARY
Type in what country you wish to travel to or any general inquiries! #BeInternational
Search for:
The John Molson International Committee (JIC) is a group of students who promote Concordia’s Student Exchange Program through their passion for travel and adventure and welcome students from all over the world completing their degrees at JMSB. JIC focuses on encouraging and inspiring JMSB students to go abroad for a semester or more and also caters to students from overseas by showing them what Montreal has to offer in order to make their experience a memorable one. This year, as part of JIC’s 10th year anniversary, we want to celebrate the incredible experiences and international friendships arrisen by the CSEP program and emphasize on the importance of cultural openess. With that said, we want to provide even more international opportunities to our JMSB students through various cultural initiatives.
OUR FOCUS
Community
On both a local and global scale, we wish to foster a sense of community amongst students. Locally, we strive to integrate international students into the JMSB community to create relationships that will benefit locals and foreign students. Globally, we encourage our JMSB students to expand their international networks by making long-lasting friendships abroad.
GROWTH
The JIC aims to expand the international community at the JMSB and enable students to create connections across the globe. We promote growth on a personal, academic and professional level through study abroad experiences and international activities. JIC also aims to grow internally as a committee so as to continuously provide the right resources and services to students.
Cultural Openness
The JIC promotes international curiosity and acceptance by encouraging JMSB students as well as incoming students to explore new places around the world, immerge themselves in new cultures and be open to new opportunities and experiences. We also promote cultural openness by encouraging the incoming students to learn more about the Canadian culture and enjoy what Montreal has to offer.
mission & vision
The JIC aims to promote academic study abroad opportunities, encourage peer support, coordinate social events, as well as create unity between different cultures among CSEP participants as well as all international students at the JMSB. In addition, we wish to foster strong international relations and develop a sense of community between exchange students, international students, and JMSB students.
OUR PARTNERS
OUR TEAM
Meet our 2017-2018 Executive Team & Scroll Over Each Picture to Read a Fun Fact!
Joelle Masse
President
Linkedin account of                                Joelle Masse
Fun Fact: I have a passion for the Italian culture. Before going on exchange, I was always bragging about how good the pastas would be…. yet I only ate pizzas during my stay there #ashamed.
KRISTEN KAZANJIAN
Executive Vice-President
Linkedin account of                                KRISTEN KAZANJIAN
Fun fact: My birthday is August 7th and I was born in 1997 and theres 7 letters in my name… you already know what my lucky number is! #luckynumber7
Nisa Raza
VP Creative Marketing
Linkedin account of                                Nisa Raza
Fun fact: I love playing Super Smash Brothers because I always win with Kirby! #stillakid
SARAH COSBY
VP Communications
Linkedin account of                                SARAH COSBY
Fun fact: I ran a half-marathon to raise money for lung cancer when I was 17! It was -30 degrees!
Wan-Li Gibson
VP Communications
Linkedin account of                                Wan-Li Gibson
Fun fact: I was in a musical (Little Shop of Horrors) this past summer with the Côte Saint-Luc Drama Society and we got nominated for a META (Montreal English Theatre Award)!
Alex DeRenzis
VP Academics
Linkedin account of                                Alex DeRenzis
Fun fact: I used to be a nationally ranked competitive swimmer and got to travel the world training and competing.
Benjamin Fagen
VP External Affairs
Linkedin account of Benjamin Fagen
Fun fact: I was the class clown in High School!
Sebastian Martinez De La Garza
Director of External Affairs
Linkedin account of                                Sebastian Martinez De La Garza
Fun fact: Two summers ago, I cycled across Canada raising funds for a non-for-profit called Champions for Life!
Marcus DeVerteuil
VP Events
Linkedin account of                                Marcus DeVerteuil
Fun fact: my middle name is Lennon, named after John!
Patrick Zylc
Director Of Events
Linkedin account of                                Patrick Zylc
Fun fact: Mushrooms, seafood and fancy cheeses (mozzarella and cheddar don’t count) are all part of the trinity of foods I refuse to eat. #aintevensorry
Maddie Green
VP Internal Affairs
Linkedin account of                                Maddie Green
Fun fact: I taught myself ukulele through YouTube!
Nathan Villamil
VP Finance
Linkedin account of                                Nathan Villamil
Fun fact: I have always dreamed of being the next Nicholas Sparks. Always writing heartfelt and romantic poems, short stories and novels!
Camille Cervia
VP Projects
Linkedin account of                                Camille Cervia
Fun fact: When I was in high school, I used to be the lead singer of a rock band!
Irene Giguere-Samson
Director Of Projects
Linkedin account of                                Irene Giguere-Samson
Fun fact: I’ve been dancing all my life and had the opportunity to dance with the national ballet of Canada and the royal Winnipeg of ballet. #danceislife
Jeanne Latulippe
First Year Representative
Linkedin account of                                Jeanne Latulippe
Fun fact: I have no fun fact yet… #oups
Thomas Savouré
First Year Representative
Linkedin account of                                Thomas Savouré
Fun fact: I currently have three different eligible passports! French, British and Canadian. #sointernational
WHY GO ON EXCHANGE?
Studying abroad is a journey about finding yourself and venturing into life changing adventures!
Sebastian Martinez De La Garza
University of Nottingham, England
Having a place half way around the world to call home and friends from all around the world to call family.
Alex DeRenzis
Lund University, Sweden
Going on exchange was an amazing experience because you not only have the opportunity to embrace a whole new culture, but you learn so much from travelling and exploring other countries as well. I’ve learnt more about myself and my interests from all of the different people I’ve met and places I’ve been to.
Maddie Green
UC3M, Madrid, Spain
LIKE OUR FACEBOOK PAGE TO STAY UPDATED WITH JIC
VISIT OUR PAGE
REPORTS
Read all about our exchange students' life-changing experiences in different countries!
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam – Netherlands
Download (PDF, 8.96MB)
ESCE – France
 
RMIT – Australia
 
University of Western Sydney – Australia
 
University of New South Wales – Australia
 
National University of Singapore – Singapore
 
Warsaw School of Economics – Poland
 
University of South Florida – USA
 
Strathclyde University – Scotland
 
Sup de Co Dakar – Senegal
 
Previous Next
1450 Guy Street  Montreal, Quebec,  MB 4.440 H3H 0A1
info@jic-jmsb.ca
(514) 848-2424 Ext. 7453
Facebook link
Linkedin link
Instagram link
John Molson International Committee
Zerif Lite developed by ThemeIsle
