Home
About Us
CASA
CASA
CASA X
Associations
FISA
JMAS
JMIBA
JHMA
JMMA
JSBA
Committees
CASA Cares
Enactus
JIC
JMAC
JMCC
JMUCC
JMSM
JSEC
JMBLC
Governance
Services
Academic Services
CASA Conference Program
Special Projects Funding
How we are Funded
Events
Master Calendar
Get Involved
Volunteer
Toolbox
Partners
CASAJMSB Deals
FAQ
Contact Us
Search
Menu
ACADEMIC SERVICES
Book a Study Room
JMSB InfoDesk and Room Booking
Services Offered: Help Desk, Study Room Bookings
An initiative provided by the John Molson School of Business is the Information Desk located at the entrance of the MB Building in the lobby. It’s primary purpose is to provide information by answering questions that students may ask throughout the year. Another very valuable service the information desk provides the students of JMSB is the booking of study rooms – which is a must-have for group projects or study sessions.
Study Rooms
A number of study rooms are available at JMSB; the majority being on the S2, S1, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, and 6th floor. These rooms can all accommodate up to 6 people, with one room open to 10 people. In order to rent a study room at the information desk, you need 2 different students to present themselves to the desk attendant.
*While one of these students may be non-JMSB Concordia student, there is a requirement of at least 1 JMSB student per room and only JMSB students may actually make a room booking
JMSB Computer Lab
The JMSB Computer Lab (R.O. WILLS Computer Lab)
Services Offered: Free Internet Browsing, Inexpensive Printing (5 cents/side), and Binding
The CASAJMSB computer lab is located on floor S1 (just under the lobby) and is home to over 20 computers. This computer lab is reserved for students and offers a convenient way to browse the Internet, print at a reasonable cost ($0.05/side for standard black and white, $0.30/side for colour printing), and bind projects and documentation for your classes.
All computers run on Windows and the majority of the computers have access to the Microsoft suite programs, such as Word, Excel and PowerPoint. If you ever need any help with anything, there is a lab monitor who can assist you at all times.
Lab Hours
Mon to Thurs: 9:30am-9:30pm
Friday: 10:30am-5:30pm
Saturday: 10:30am-5:30pm
Sunday: Closed
Summer Hours
Mon to Thurs: 9:30am-5:30pm
Friday: 10:30am-5:30pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed
Services
Black & White Printing @ 5 CENTS per SIDE
Colour Printing @ 30 CENTS per SIDE
FREE SCANNING
Print Assist – Our trained monitors will help you print out your documents using PowerPoint, Excel, etc.
Bookbinding
Spiral Book Binding – $3 per binding
Software: Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, etc.
We are now using Papercut! Please see a Lab monitor to register and load money on to your account. We accept loonies, toonies and up!
REQUEST: Send software requests to labmanager@casajmsb.ca
Mentorship Programs
Mentorship Programs
Whether you are a new student, or a continuing student, there are mentorship programs available for you at the John Molson School of Business! A mentorship program can better your experience while you are studying here, and you can build long lasting relationships that will profit you after graduation. Take a Look!
Peer Mentorship Program (JMAC Initiative)
School can be a lot to handle and there is a lot of information out there about the programs, activities and opportunities at the John Molsons School of Business. With JMACs peer mentorship program, you can either
Become a Mentor: Work with a student who is interested in learning what there is to offer at the school, what classes to take, and how they can fully benefit from going to school at the John Molson School of Business.
Become a Mentee: Meet a seasoned student who will help you fully benefit from your experience here at JMSB.
LEARN MORE AND SIGN UP JMACS WEBSITE
Professional Mentorship Program (JMAS Initiative) – Accounting Students
The professional world can be an intimidating place! This program gives student’s the opportunity to learn from professionals in the accounting industry, from the practical aspects of day-to-day life to the intricacies of the field itself.
A mentor can also offer professional advice to make sure you stay on the path to a successful career and will be an invaluable asset to any accounting student looking to not only succeed but also excel.
LEARN MORE AND SIGN UP ON JMAS’ WEBSITE
Newsletter
The CASA Newsletter is a great way to keep up-to-date with a lot of things happening at CASAJMSB, the University and our 13 subsidiary associations and committees. Because we hate spam you, we we promise to deliver you the best information in a fun and easy to read manner just once a month!
Rentals
Rentals
There are many resources available to the students at JMSB to enable their learning and spirit for education.
Rent-a-Textbook
In case you haven’t already figured it out, textbooks are expensive! This is especially the case for courses that require you to have one textbook for just 4 months (basically all of them)! Therefore, Concordia has a great service where you can rent all of the books required for major courses for up to a 3-hour time span. Check it out at the Library’s Webster Room (LB 2). All you need is your student ID card! Sign into the course reserves website using your MyConcordia netname and password to see if your courses’ textbooks are available.
Rent-a-Calculator (JMAC Initiative)
An initiative begun by the John Molson Academic Committee, JMSB now rents out calculators free of charge. All it takes to rent a calculator or i-clicker for the whole semester is your student ID, a signed contract, and a cash deposit that you will get back when you return it. Drop by MB 4.106 to rent one of the following:
Texas Instruments BA II Plus (Financial Calculator) – $50 deposit
I-Clicker 2 – $40 deposit
Sharp Advanced (Scientific Calculator) – $20 deposit
Rent-a-Charger
Forgot your phone charger at home? Stuck at school until your 5:45-8:15pm class ends?  No worries, you can rent a charger for your iPhone or Android at NO CHARGE! All it takes is a student card for every rental.
ABOUT US
We represent all undergraduates who are studying at the John Molson School of Business.
CASAJMSB provides its students with a wide range of academic support and extracurricular activities designed to enhance their university experience.
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
CONTACT US
Commerce and Administration Student Association (CASA)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.110
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Copyright - CASAJMSB
Twitter
Dribbble
X
Scroll to top
