Home
About Us
CASA
CASA
CASA X
Associations
FISA
JMAS
JMIBA
JHMA
JMMA
JSBA
Committees
CASA Cares
Enactus
JIC
JMAC
JMCC
JMUCC
JMSM
JSEC
JMBLC
Governance
Services
Academic Services
CASA Conference Program
Special Projects Funding
How we are Funded
Events
Master Calendar
Get Involved
Volunteer
Toolbox
Partners
CASAJMSB Deals
FAQ
Contact Us
Search
Menu
CASA CONFERENCE PROGRAM
What is the CASA Conference Program (CCP)?
The CASA Conference Program (CCP) is an initiative brought forward by the Commerce and Administration Students’ Association (CASA-JMSB) aimed at enhancing students’ undergraduate experience beyond the classroom. The program provides them with the opportunity to attend various conferences focused on their fields of study or personal interests by covering their delegate fee. The purpose of CCP is to give students the chance to extend their learning by getting to hear directly from panels of industry professional, engaging in stimulating workshops, and growing their personal and business networks.
Who is Eligible to Apply?
Any undergraduate student taking a major or minor at the John Molson School of Business is eligible to apply to CCP. Students may receive funding once per semester and may not apply to receive funding for a conference that they have already received CCP funding for in a prior year.
How do You Apply?
Students can apply to CCP using the application form found on the right. Please note that there is one application form for the fall semester and one for the winter semester respectively.
Applicants will be contacted regardless of whether or not they have been approved. Students who have been approved must then register for their respective conference and PAY FOR THE DELEGATE FEE ON THEIR OWN. The reimbursement process is described below.
It is important to note that applying for CCP IS NOT registration for the actual conference (it simply an application for funding to attend the conference), thus students must apply on the conference’s web page to secure their spot by the conference’s registration deadline.
How do you Get Reimbursed?
Upon approval, applicants will be sent a confirmation attendance form that they must print and bring with them to the conference to have signed by a member of the conference’s organizing committee. Without the signed confirmation of attendance form, students WILL NOT be reimbursed for their delegate fee. A printed copy of their proof of payment (students cannot simply email a copy of the receipt) along with the signed confirmation of attendance form must be presented to MB 4.106 and a cheque will be prepared under the student’s name. The applicant will receive an email confirmation advising them when their cheque is ready to be picked up from the CASA-JMSB office (MB 4.105).
Only delegate fees are reimbursed through CCP; travel, meals, and room and board expenses are assumed by the student.
Please contact external@casajmsb.ca for any questions or additional information.
Applications for the 2016-17 year have closed and will re-open in September 2017. Thank you for your patience.
ABOUT US
We represent all undergraduates who are studying at the John Molson School of Business.
CASAJMSB provides its students with a wide range of academic support and extracurricular activities designed to enhance their university experience.
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
CONTACT US
Commerce and Administration Student Association (CASA)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.110
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Copyright - CASAJMSB
Twitter
Dribbble
X
Scroll to top
