  info@wecompete.ca
  (514) 848-2424 ext:7383
Home
Recruitment
Coaches
Contact
Join the Delegation
Do you want to represent JMSB regionally, nationally and internationally?
Do you have what it takes to compete?
Learn more, and register to try-out today!
Academics
Do you want to take what you’ve learnt in class and apply it in the real world while helping prove that JMSB is one of the top business schools in the world?
If yes, Academics may just be for you!
Sports
If you’re hyper about competition, got the team spirit and the pride, you might have what it takes to be a Vanguard. Come and show us what you’ve got!
Debate
Do you think you have what it takes to be the next American president? You know what’s going on in the world? Debate is for you!
Stock Sim
Are you passionate about stocks, trading and the world? You know the difference between TSX, NASDAQ and Forbes? Stock Sim is for you! Are you the next wolf of JMSB?  
Social
Are theater, costumes, improvisation, academic cases, jokes and having a lot of fun right up your alley? Apply for social and you will never regret it!
Volunteers
You have a creative spirit, party animal instincts, and solid HOT TO GO energy, apply for the volunteer/ambassador position. You won’t regret it!
Try-Out Dates
Academic try-outs will take place from May to July depending on the discipline.
Sports, Social, Debate, and Stock Simulation try-outs will take place from August to September
Have questions? We have answers!
View a Sample Case
Download Case
Frequently Asked Questions
What if I am away during try-outs?
Not to worry! It is possible to try-out via Skype should you be away during try-outs for your selected discipline.
Is there a GPA / course requirement?
There is no minimum GPA required to compete nor course requirement for most disciplines.
Disciplines with specific requirements are:
Accounting : ACCO 310 and ACCO 320
Finance: FINA 385 and FINA 395
Tax: ACCO 340 and ACCO 440 (prior or concurrently)
Do I have to be enrolled in any special courses?
In order to train for these competitions students are enrolled in a Case Competition class, a 3-credit business elective, which provides students with the presentation and analysis skills needed to excel in the various disciplines.
What is the time requirement to compete?
Competing requires a 10-15 hour a week time commitment from the beginning of the fall semester through to the competition.
I have a question that wasn't listed above
We can still help you out!
Send us an email at info@wecompete.ca or find other ways to connect with us here !
Missed our info-sessions? Watch the presentation here
Do you want to compete? Sign up for a try-out today!
Try-Out!
Rodrigo TriguerosRecruitment
04.28.2015
About Us
The John Molson Competition Committee runs the largest case competition program in the world. We select, train, and send undergraduate JMSB students to represent our school in regional, national and international case competitions.
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.445
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
John Molson Competition Committee © 2015
