Skip to content
Home
We’re Hiring!
About
Advertise
Contact
Themes
Support
Blog
Collections
Reviews
My Account
Register
Sydney
Sydney is a powerful business theme that provides a fast way for companies or freelancers to create an awesome online presence. Sydney brings plenty of customization possibilities like access to all Google Fonts, full color control, layout control, logo upload, full screen slider, header image, sticky navigation and much more. Also, Sydney provides all the construction blocks you need to rapidly create an engaging front page.
DEMO
DOWNLOAD
GO PRO DOCUMENTATION
CURRENT VERSION: 1.40LAST UPDATE: 23 Jun 2017COMPATIBILITY: 4.8
CHANGELOG SUPPORT
FEATURES
Responsive
Sydney is developed and designed with best practices in mind. This way, you can bet your new theme will work great.
Theme Options
Customize your front page and blog layout, change the colors as you wish and more. All theme options are located in the powerful Theme Customizer.
Google Fonts
Sydney provides you with easy access to any fonts you want from Google Fonts. Choose between more than 600 fonts.
Translation ready
This theme is 100% translation ready and includes the necessary files in order to make the translation process a breeze.
Front page blocks
Use the blocks included in the theme to easily set up the home page that will make your company stand out on the Internet.
Parallax backgrounds
Stand out from the crowd with parallax backgrounds. You can set a parallax background image for any of your rows and watch it come to life as you scroll.
Slider or static image header
Sydney lets you choose the header you want. Go with a full screen slider or a full width static header image. Your site, your choice.
Social
Keep your visitors communicating with you throughout the web! Sydney includes social icons so your visitors can find you wherever you are.
INCLUDED IN EVERY THEME
Live Customizer
We make use of the WordPress Customizer, which allows you to preview changes to your website live, in all of our themes. This is the future of website editing.
Updates
The work doesn’t stop once we release a theme. We regularly release updates to fix any bugs, add new features (often based on customer feedback), and stay up to date with the latest version of WordPress.
Translation Ready
Our themes follow the best internalization practices and therefore are ready to be translated into your language.
Cross Browser Support
We support the most popular modern web browsers: Chrome, Firefox, IE9+ and Opera.
Fast Support
Our customers love our rapid and friendly support. Our themes are  simple and easy to use, but if you need help, our support forum is always open.
WordPress Best Practices
We follow WordPress coding best practices, as laid out by the WordPress.org theme review team, so you can be sure your theme is coded to the highest standards.
DEMO
DOWNLOAD
GO PRO DOCUMENTATION
What Users Are Saying
Beautiful theme!
By Kalina21
“This theme is gorgeous and I love using it for my business. The team behind it is also very helpful, even for the free version! Love this theme and highly recommend it.”
Fabulous theme!
By Debbie
“This is my first experience setting up a responsive theme. The possibilities are endless, with wonderful styling options. The support team is incredibly helpful, over and above the norm. Thank you so much!”
Hosting Reviews
SiteGround vs. WP Engine vs. Flywheel: Three Managed WordPress Hosts Compared
7 of the Best WordPress Hosting Providers Compared 2017
Useful Links
Contact
Pricing
Affiliates
About
We’re hiring!
Social
Newsletter
©2017 aThemes. All rights reserved.
privacy policy
terms
Get your free download
Enter your email to be the first to know about new theme releases.
Email Address *
Error: Please enter a valid email address
Error: Invalid email
Error: Please enter your first name
Error: Please enter your last name
Error: Please enter a username
Error: Please enter a password
Error: Please confirm your password
Error: Password and password confirmation do not match
Subscribe & Download
No thanks, I just want to download the files
