About
Events
JMMA Shorts
The Team
Recruitment
The Embassy
Contact
We are Recruiting!
Be part of the 2016-2017 JMMA Team!
Be part of the team!
Do you have a passion for marketing?
Are you dying to get involved?
Here is your chance to be part of the John Molson Marketing Association Executive Team and make the most of of your time in JMSB!
Deadline to apply: April 6th, 2016 11:59PM
Application Process:
1. Get informed about all the available positions
2. Create a 1 minute YouTube video to tell us about yourself
3. Fill the form by clicking on Apply Now!
4. Check your emails (Especially the Spam folder)
Apply Now!
VP FINANCE
Are you creative and good with numbers? If so, then you'll definitely want to apply for JMMA's VP Finance position. You'll get to manage budgets, track expenses, and find creative ways to seek alternative funding.  Be audit you can be, and apply to JMMA now!
VP External
Do you have what it takes to seek funding for JMMA's vision and manage a team of go-getters? As VP External, you must identify and maintain relationships with companies who will sponsor our conferences, workshops and yearly events, keep track of what the people in your team are achieving and reaching your goals. If you have a big network or just have a way of connecting with people, apply now!
External Director
Do you have what it takes to seek funding for JMMA's vision? As External Director, you must identify and maintain relationships with companies who will sponsor our conferences, workshops and yearly events. Our conferences are one of the main reason students love JMMA! It is important to get quality speakers and recruiters. It will be your responsibility to seek these speakers and recruiters. If you have a big network or just have a way of connecting with people, apply now!
VP Marketing
Are you someone creative? Someone whose mind is always full of great ideas? Someone who knows how to come up with great campaigns to sell our events and conferences? If you answered yes to all these questions, you definitely should apply to be JMMA’s VP Marketing. As the team’s VP Marketing, you will be asked to manage a team of creative people and come up with innovative ways to communicate with JMSB’s students. Apply now!
Graphic Designer
Do you ever find yourself playing around on Photoshop until the wee hours of the morning? Do you like taking nothing and turning it into something incredible? If so, you may want to apply to be JMMA's Graphic Designer. You'll need to know Photoshop or Illustrator and any design experience is an asset.
Social Media Coordinator
As the link between JMMA and its die-hard fans, the Social Media Coordinator is responsible for maintaining JMMA's image and voice through all social media platforms. Also responsible for JMMA's monthly newsletter, great writing skills are a must. If you're a social media wiz then apply now!
Events Team
Can you throw a party? What about a conference? As Events Coordinator, you will organize teams, venues, caterers and volunteers to actualize JMMA's events. If you can manage your time well and promptly meet deadlines, then apply for JMMA’s Events Team now!
Director of The Embassy
Do your friends ever call you the parent of your friend group? Are you a people-person who enjoys mentoring, teaching and excels at communication? Then you may want to apply to be JMMA's Embassy Director. You'll be the link between our Embassy and us and will manage projects of your very own. Requirements are an open mind, ears and heart.
Learn More
JMMA Shorts
The Embassy
REAL Projects
Partnership Package
Our Partners
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
JMSB Marketing Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
© 2015 John Molson Marketing Association All Rights Reserved.
