Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
About JMAS
What is JMAS?
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a student run association operating as a subsidiary of the Commerce and Administration Students’ Association (CASA) of the John Molson School of Business (JMSB). As one of the oldest associations in JMSB, we have the honor to represent the largest major specific student base; the accounting student body. We strive to enhance the university experience of accounting students by providing opportunities to bridge the gap between the L’Ordre des Comptables Professionnels Agreés du Québec (OCPAQ), accounting professionals, faculty members and their peers.
Who are we?
The 2017-2018 team is composed of 15 regular, and yet special, undergraduate JMSB students. Even while taking a full course load, doing internships through co-op, working part time, participating in case competitions, and managing somewhat of a social life, we work arduously to bring added value to our peers. The team was formed by our two co-Presidents, with the goal in mind to shine a bright light on our school and it’s students. As an organization, we strive for three things; competence, excellence and character. Our team is composed of students who are on the precipice of graduation, others who are about to begin their second year, and some in between. However, we all have one thing in mind, and it is to make the most out of our mandates.
What do we do?
Our main priority is to bring as many opportunities as possible to our student body. We do so by organizing academic, social and professional events. Our annual recruitment cocktail is the highlight of the year, with over 500 students and company representatives networking together. As a result, our students have been recognized as the talented professionals they are. Furthermore, we represent Concordia University at many external accounting conferences. We also represent the accountancy student body on the Board of Directors of the CASA. Throughout our mandate, we will strive to organize the best academic and social events possible to enhance the university experience of all students at JMSB.
Mission
We strive to enhance the university experience of accounting students by providing opportunities to bridge the gap between the OCPAQ, accounting professionals, faculty members and their peers.
Objectives
Represent the undergraduate accounting student body
Organize the annual CPA recruitment process
Provide information on the accounting profession and the CPA designation
Provide networking and professional development opportunities
Build sustainable relationships with our partners in the business community
Promote extracurricular activities and involvement on campus
Presidents’ Message
First and foremost, we would like to thank you for your interest in our organization. The John Molson Accounting Society’s mission is to enrich Accounting student’s university experience here at the John Molson School of Business. We attempt to compliment our University’s curriculum by (providing) a large array of extracurricular activities ranging from academic seminars to networking cocktails and speaker series.  All of our actions are guided by the desire to provide our peers with tools that will permit them to excel in the academic and professional careers.
In the past we have been awarded the “Best Association of the Year” from the Commerce and Administration Student’s Association (CASA) and recently the “Association of the Year” award from the CPA Order of Quebec. We intend to honor these awards and continue tending to the development of the accounting student population at JMSB.
In the coming years we hope to further educate new coming students to the available resources and opportunities at JMSB. We also hope to develop bold and new initiatives to integrate external stakeholders within our operations, from the OQCPA, to Les Jeunes CPA and other Concordia associations, without forgetting industry members and post graduate educational programs.
To another amazing year.
Signed,
Mazri Hafiz & Stephanie Di Bacco
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
