Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
The John Molson Accounting Society will be holding office hours twice a week to answer any questions students may have. Being the VP Academic, Lillian Di Girolamo has knowledge pertaining to the CPA Certification Program, the Mentorship Program, the CPA Recruitment Cocktail, and much more important information valuable to students.
This up coming week the office hours will take place Tuesday the 2nd at 1:15-2:30pm, Thursday the 3rd 3:00-4:00pm and Wednesday the 10th 12:00-1:00pm. So feel free to stop by, our door is always open!
What is Accounting?
Accounting is providing useful financial data about an entity for users of the financial statements to make resources allocation decisions.  Accountants gather data in order to accommodate stakeholders with useful information that is relevant and reliable.  In general, the main users, notably creditors and shareholders, intend on financing an economic entity with the expectation of receiving a return in their investment.  The data gathered by accountants serve to protect the interest of the stakeholders assuming that they have a general understanding of the accounting information provided.  Ultimately, accountants help to make sure that the stakeholders of an business make the right capital allocation decisions.
Career Opportunities
Accountants have an exciting world of opportunities available to them. As with medicine, law or engineering, a number of paths are open to accountants to enhance their expertise and advance their careers. Accountants in industry are involved in decisions in many of the organizations vital functions. Accountants, or more specifically Chartered Professional Accountants (CPA) in public practice, spend very little time at the office as they visit clients on a regular basis – organizations of all sizes and from all industries – to meet with management and provide advisory, strategy, or assurance services. Accountants can also be entrepreneurs and leaders of economic development because of their solid business management expertise and strategic vision.
Potential career options for accounting majors include:
Accountant
Budget Analyst
Taxation Specialist
Treasurer
Auditor
Credit Officer
Forensic Accountant
Securities Manager
Bookkeeper
Broker
Valuator
Entrepreneur
Portfolio Administrator
Other specialties an accountant can focus on are as follows:
Forensic Accounting
Taxation
Finance
Information Technology
Business valuation
Internal audit
Insolvency and restructuring
Assurance
ACCO 340 Tutorials
CPA Designation
Deloitte National Leadership Conference and Information Session
KPMG Beer & Pizza
Meet the Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton (RCGT) Team
Mentorship Program
New CPA Graduate Diploma
Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton (RCGT) Scholarship Opportunity
Newsletter
JMAS Newsletter
Receive Updates from Firms and Networking Events
Email Address:
First Name:
Last Name:
Year of Study in Accountancy:
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
