Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
Chartered Professional Accountant
History of Chartered Professional Accounting (CPA)
In early 2011, the provincial government’s Office des professions who oversees the three accounting bodies invited the Board of Directors of all three bodies to reflect on the future of the accounting profession.  The three accounting bodies were interested in exploiting an unification.  During the summer of 2011, the Board of Directors presented the highlights and guidelines of the unification to members and stakeholders.  That fall, all three Board of Directors issued a favourable unification recommendation to the Office des professions.  The three accounting bodies in Quebec eventually became the first to merge under the Chartered Profession Accountant (CPA) designation in Canada.
Bill 61 is a constitutional amendment which was passed in order to merge the CA, CMA, and CGA designations.  The passing of the legislation in Quebec represents a significant milestone.  The province of Quebec is the first to initiate the unification of the three accounting bodies under the CPA designation in Canada.  The legislation presently serves as a model for the other provinces in Canada.  The accounting bodies in Quebec now speak with a unified voice, pronouncing their presence among doctors, lawyers, and engineers.  Efforts to unite accounting bodies in other Canadian provinces are underway while the unification framework in Quebec is being used to guide unification discussions in other provinces.
CPA Certification Program Breakdown:
The CPA certification program is broken down into four parts;
Common Core Modules
Elective Modules
Capstone Integrative Module
Capstone Examination Preparation Module
1. Common Core Modules
The beginning of the program is comprised of two common core modules which all students in the CPA program must take. It consists of the following six integrated core competency:
Financial Reporting
Strategy and Governance
Management Accounting
Audit and Assurance
Finance
Taxation
2. Elective Modules
Students then have the opportunity to further develop skills in an area of deeper interest by choosing two elective modules:
Assurance
Performance Management
Tax
Finance
*All students must choose two. Students wanting to pursue a career in public accounting must choose assurance and tax.
3. Capstone Integrative Module
This modules focuses on the development of competencies such as leadership and professional skills and integrates all previous competencies. In this module students will create a business report and present it to a board of directors for evaluation.
4. Capstone Examination Preparation Module
This modules prepares students for the Common Final Examination (CFE). Students must complete an evaluation preparation course in order to write the final exam.
CPA Designation Requirements:
Qualifying Professional Work Experience
24 Months (or 2,500 hours) of qualifying professional experience for Public Accounting.  Please note that public accounting candidates must complete at least 1,500 hours of qualifying professional experience in assurance.
Here is a list of pre-approved employers that will provide hours counting towards the qualifying professional experience for Public Accounting.
CPA Certification Program
Year 1: Completion of the six Common Streamline Modules
Financial Reporting
Strategy and Governance
Management Accounting
Audit and Assurance
Finance
Taxation
Year 2: Selection of Elective Modules
Candidates must select any two of four modules:
Assurance
Performance Management
Tax
Finance
Please note that Public Accounting Candidates MUST choose Assurance and Tax.
Candidates must successfully complete a profession developed exam preparation course in order to sit at the final exam.
Finally, candidates must pass a uniform final exam where they must demonstrate breath in all six core competency areas and depth in two core competency areas: that is, Financial Accounting OR Management Accounting, PLUS one of the other four aforementioned competency areas.
Please note that Public Accounting Candidates MUST demonstrate depth in Financial Accounting and Assurance
CPA Order
The Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec (CPA) is a professional order representing members of an “exclusive profession” as defined by the  Professional Code , that is an organization dedicated primarily to the protection of the public. To this end, the Order, like the 43 other professional orders in Quebec, must carry out specific functions related to issuing permits to new members, updating the Roll of the Order, monitoring the practice of the profession and detecting illegal practice. It must also comply with a set of operating rules imposed by the  Professional Code .
The CPA Order comprises 35,600 members and more than 6,500 candidates and students. By combining its distinctive forces under a single order, the Quebec accounting profession strengthens its position both nationally and internationally.
Coordinates
Place Ville Marie Office (Head office) 
4, Place Ville Marie, 6e étage
Montréal, Québec  H3B 2E7
Tel.: 514 288-3256
Toll free: 1 800 363-4688
Fax: 514 843-8375
E-mail:  info@cpa-quebec.com
ACCO 340 Tutorials
CPA Designation
Deloitte National Leadership Conference and Information Session
KPMG Beer & Pizza
Meet the Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton (RCGT) Team
Mentorship Program
New CPA Graduate Diploma
Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton (RCGT) Scholarship Opportunity
Newsletter
JMAS Newsletter
Receive Updates from Firms and Networking Events
Email Address:
First Name:
Last Name:
Year of Study in Accountancy:
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
