Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
Applying at JMSB
Outstanding accountants keep businesses ahead of the curve: solving problems, building sound financial strategies and ensuring good fiscal health. If you’re a high achiever with an appetite for continuous learning, consider us. You’ll join a program with a reputation for graduates who achieve excellent results at national professional accounting examinations.
Not sure what are the steps to apply? 
Do you know where you want to go and are ready to apply?
Additional Resources
Accounting Handbook
ASPE at a glance
IFRS at a glance
BComm Requirements
Applicants from Quebec Cegeps (pre-University)
Entry to the program requires an overall CRC score of 26.00 and a CRC score of 25.50 in mathematics.
The courses considered in the mathematics CRC average is Calculus 1 & Linear Algebra. Applicants are still eligible to apply even if they have only completed one of these courses, given that the remaining one is completed at JMSB during their first year.
Students may complete classes in Cegep for which they will be exempted at JMSB.
70%
Mathematics 201–103 or 201–NYA (Calculus I)
70%
Mathematics 201–105 or 201–NYC (Linear Algebra)
75%
Introduction to Macroeconomics (Concordia: ECON 203)
75%
Introduction to Microeconomics (Concordia: ECON 201)
Pass
Computer Literacy (Concordia: BTM 200)
Admitted students who do not receive exemptions for these courses in their letter of acceptance will be required to complete them as elective credits at JMSB during their first year in the program. These prerequisite courses will count for credit and will not normally prolong a JMSB degree in any way.
Applicants from Quebec Cegeps (Professional/ Technique)
Cegep applicants completing a three-year technical DEC in a business-related field may also be eligible for admission without the mathematics profile specified above, provided they achieve a minimum overall CRC of 26.00 and achieve a minimum of 70% in the quantitative business course(s) required for their Cegep program. It is also recommended that these applicants submit their high school transcripts with their application.
Options if you do not meet the requirements
The most common way is to register into an other department at Concordia. Programs such as Economics  or Poli-Sci   are interesting and accessible. Using your time at Concordia to complete the requirements demanded for JMSB. After this you may be eligible to  Internally transfer from other Concordia programs.
Concordia students in non-JMSB degree programs (e.g., B.A. students) may apply to transfer to a JMSB degree program for the Fall semester only. The deadline is MARCH 1; application forms are available at  Birks Student Service Centre  for a $40 fee.
Register for a JMSB Degree Transfer Information Session
Download a Degree Transfer information sheet
Independent Students and Certificate program students are not eligible for degree transfers and must submit a  new application  to the university for either the Fall or Winter semesters; though the following admissions information is valid for all Concordia degree transfers, certificate and independent students.
Download an independent and certificate student transfer information sheet
Internal applicants must have completed the following five prerequisite courses, or their equivalents, prior to admission:
MATH 208 (Fundamentals of Mathematics I)
MATH 209 (Fundamentals of Mathematics II)
ECON 201 (Introduction to Microeconomics)
ECON 203 (Introduction to Macroeconomics)
BTM 200 (Fundamentals of Information Technology)
Internal applicants must have completed at least 12 credits at Concordia with a cumulative GPA of 2.70 for either the BComm program or the BAdmin program. Applicants must also have achieved a B- average in MATH 208 and MATH 209, if completed at the university level.
*Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements.
Applicants may still complete some classes that will count towards their Bcomm major despite not being at JMSB yet. This option is heavily recommended.
MARK 201 (with a minimum grade of “C-“) => COMM 223
COMM 215 “Business Statistics” (with a minimum grade of “C-“)
The following two courses may result in exemptions only and will not count for credit at JMSB:
ACCO 230 (with a minimum grade of “C”) => COMM 217 ENDS SUMMER 2015
ACCO 240 (with a minimum grade of “C-”) => COMM 305
Note: ACCO 230 completed in the Fall 2015 semester and later will no longer result in exemption from COMM 217
Classes & Worksheets
 On a typical application, a student must complete 90 credits in order to graduate. This number will go up to 120 if you are an out of province student. Keep in mind that these numbers are minimal requirements, a student may take on additional credits before applying for graduation.
Credits are acquired through classes. At JMSB an accounting student will have to take 3 types of classes in order to graduate: Core, Major and Elective classes. Core classes are classes every JMSB student must take, regardless of their major. These classes will give you an insight into the different business majors available at Concordia. Major classes are required to be taken by students in the specialization; Accounting students may only take ACCO major classes. Finally, Electives are classes that permit you to explore different fields/ areas that the curriculum does not touch on. Use these classes to look into fields that interest you  and who will broaden your horizon.
Below are worksheets that provide a suggestion on how to efficiently structure your classes depending on your major. Keep in mind that these are only suggestions. It is always wise to adjust the workload to your personal situation and to research the nature of the classes in advance.
Worksheet 2014-2015 (90 credits)
Worksheet 2014-2015 (120 credits)
Core classes
Major classes
Internship & Job Opportunities
The field of accountancy provides students with a wide array of possibilities. A problem with this is that the field itself is very large and this can sometimes get confusing. The mains areas for accountants upon graduation are:
Bookkeeper
Taxation Specialist
Auditor
Forensic Accountant
Controller
Most often, graduating students will be heading towards either bookkeeping, taxation or audit before venturing into new fields. Now, most importantly, how do students apply for those job? JMSB offers students with an amplitude of opportunities.
CPA Recruitment
Every September, top accounting firms seek to recruit undergraduate students for internships & full time positions. JMSB is known to be working with the largest network of firms, having over 20 organizations participating in the process. Students will selected & interviewed by firms and be eligible to receive employment opportunities for the following Summer, Fall or Winter period.
For more information about the process, visit the recruitment tab!
Leadership Conferences
Every Summer, each of the Big 4 Accounting Firms independently host student leadership conferences. These conferences are announced in Spring with the selection process beginning shortly after. Applying students must submit certain documents and go trough an interview process. Selected students will have the chance to hear presentations form the firm’s top leaders, participate in interactive workshops and network with professionals.
(TBA) More information will be added as the conferenced are announced.
ConneXions
This is a career portal directed by JMSB’s Career Management Services (CMS). It permits registered students to attend CV & interview workshops, participate in net working events, view a large bank of job postings and much more! These jobs posting satisfy a wide array of industries and may be sorted by major, experience and even company. These jobs are frequently updated and may give students internships and full time jobs. Being familiar with this bank is an essential part for any students looking for employment upon graduation.
You may access the portal and all of it’s resources here!
Co-op Program
This program is one of the services based around JMSB’s student experience philosophy. It permits students to complete several internships in different industries throughout their undergrad. This provides participants to receive the hands on experience that isn’t taught in class. While this does delay the graduation of participants, they come out of university with over a year of job experience, giving them a serious advantage when applying for full time jobs.
To apply to the program you must meet the following requirement:
You must be motivated and dedicated.
You must have a minimum 3.00 GPA or a 27.00 CRC (28 for Accounting and Finance) in order to qualify for an interview.
You must be bilingual (speaking both English and French)
You need to have at least 60 credits remaining to do in your Program.
For those in the 120 credit program, please apply after completing 30 credits
If you are interested apply here!
In order to be accepted for September you must apply by March 31st.
In order to be accepted for January you must apply by October 1st
Newsletter
JMAS Newsletter
Receive Updates from Firms and Networking Events
Email Address:
First Name:
Last Name:
Year of Study in Accountancy:
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
