Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
Beyond the CPA Designation many other certifications exists for prospective accountants. Additional certificates can be very useful in the marketplace and permits accountants to specialize in certain domains such as Business valuation, Fraud accounting & many more.
Specializing will help members become valuable assets to their firm and propel their career.  Getting to know all of the available opportunities is essential to all professionals. In this page the top certificates are outlined for you to get familiar with.
Certified Business Valuation (CBV)
A Chartered Business Valuator (CBV) is a financial professional who determines the value of all, or part of a business or company. CBVs take into account many factors and methods when determining the value of a business, including economic conditions, tangible and intangible assets and future cash flow. CBVs also provide Litigation supprot to clients; establishing potential areas of loss, identifying relevant documents and questions for discovery, performing quantitative analysis, etc.
Internal Auditor Certifications (CIA, CCSA, CRMA)
Internal members providing independent and objective evaluations of the company’s financial and operational business activities, including its corporate governance. Internal auditors also provide evaluations of operational efficiency and will usually report to the highest levels of management on how to improve the overall structure and practices of the company.
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA)
A certification available for professionals who conduct audits of information systems. CISA has a high degree of visibility and recognition in the fields of IT security, IT audit, IT risk management and governance.
Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE)
ACFE is reducing business fraud world-wide and inspiring public confidence in the integrity and objectivity within the profession. CFEs have a unique set of skills that are not found in any other career field or discipline; they combine knowledge of complex financial transactions with an understanding of methods, law, and how to resolve allegations of fraud. Fraud examiners are also trained to understand not only how fraud occurs, but why.
Newsletter
JMAS Newsletter
Receive Updates from Firms and Networking Events
Email Address:
First Name:
Last Name:
Year of Study in Accountancy:
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
