Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
Recruitment
What
In September, many of Montreal’s accounting firms will strive to recruit Montreal’s top talent for future accounting positions. Anyone looking for a job in accounting is quite fortunate, as this process can really help students get their foot in the door, even before graduating.
Recruitment consists of many events, such as:
Firm Tours: Tours given by the firms, which give students the opportunity to get a feel for the environment of the office, and a chance to network with firm representatives and other students.
Firm Seminars: Seminars hosted by the firm, which advise students on how to approach interviews, as well as advice on networking, and CACEE writing. These seminars also provide the opportunity for students to network and impress firm representatives.
CMS Workshops: CMS offers Clinics for CACEE form writing, job search strategies, and successful interviewing. You can register for these workshops on ConneXions .
Recruitment Cocktail: This is one of the most important events, which provides students with the chance to meet and network with the majority of the firms taking part in Recruitment. This is a unique opportunity to impress potential employers. It is strongly recommended that all students attend.
When?
Recruitment starts towards the end of August/beginning of September. The events listed above continue right up until the CACEE deadline on September 20th. You can find information on how to register for each event on our website.
Where?
There are events at numerous different locations from Marche Bonsecours, to seminars at JMSB, to the firm’s offices themselves. You will likely be travelling all over the city during this exciting month.
Why?
To find the perfect fit and the perfect career for you, of course! Take advantage of being part of one of the only programs where the employers are the ones to make the first move.
How?
Complete a CACEE form. To download the form, go to the CACEE website (you have the choice to download the English or French version of the CACEE Form). To learn more about how to complete a CACEE form please download the “CACEE form Tips Sheet” found in on ConneXions .
Important: be sure to:
Include a copy of your transcript with every application
Write your name in the signature box on each CACEE form
The application deadline is Wednesday, September 20th at 11:59 p.m.. You are strongly encouraged to submit your completed CACEE application forms before that date.
Accounting firms are responsible for emailing each candidate about the interview information (location, time, date).
Resources
Links:
CACEE Template
Cacee Deadline Info
CMS
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
