Home
About Us
Executive Team
First Year Representative
CASAJMSB
Volunteers
Academic
Become a JMAS Tutor
ACCO 340 Tutorials
Accounting Handbook
Accountancy at JMSB
Mentorship Program
CPA Desgination
JMSB CPA Graduate Diploma
McGill CPA Graduate Diploma
Online CPA
Other Certifications
Recruitment
Firm Tours and Seminars 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Events
First Year Event 2017
Dividends Magazine Launch 2017
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2017
Accounting Conference
CPA for a Day 2017
JMAS Presents: Information Session Series
Winter Cocktail 2017
JMAS Casino Night 2017
Archives
Events 2015-2016
First Year Event 2015
Pool and Bowling
Tax Speaker Series and Networking Cocktail
JMAS Gets Fit 2015
Game to Gain 2015
JMAS Tax Clinic – Volunteer Recruitment
Events 2014-2015
Dividends Magazine Launch 2014
CPA Recruitment Cocktail 2014
Dividends Cup 2014
First Year Event
JMAS Info Session
CPA Information Session
JMAS Meet & Greet
CPA Information Session – Part 2
CPA Business Photoshoot
Game to Gain
JMAS Gets Fit
CPA for a Day Case Competiton
JMIBA & JMAS Present: NEXPATRIATES
CPA Discovery Tour 2015
CPA Winter Cocktail
Coffee Monday
Events 2013-2014
First Year Event
CPA Recruitment Cocktail
JMAS – FISA 5-7
Balanced Lifestyle
Pool & Bowling Night
JMAS & MAS Cocktail
Dividends
CPA Info Session
Dividends Cup
Winter Cocktail
Designation Expo
Game To Gain
Beer & Pizza
CPA Discovery Tour
Jobs
Submit a Job Posting
JMAS Tax Clinic
JMAS Tax Clinic
Volunteer Registration
Clinique d’Impôts JMAS 2017
Platinum & Gold Sponsors
Search
PwC
In Canada, PwC has more than 6,700 partners and staff in location from St. John’s, Newfoundland to Victoria, British Columbia.
With more than 100 years of excellence in Canada, we provide industry focused assurance, advisory and tax services for public, private and government clients in four areas:
Corporate accountability
Risk management
Structuring and mergers and acquisitions
Performance and process improvement
As part of a larger network of over 223,000 people in 157 countries, we work to provide clients with the best of our collective thinking, experience and solutions to build public trust and enhance value for our clients and their stakeholders.
www.pwc.com
Richter
With offices in both Montreal and Toronto, our entire team includes more than 450 partners, specialists, professionals and administrative staff.
Main objective: To support organizations striving for excellence and longevity
Our firm’s mission is to help entrepreneur-driven businesses in the pursuit of their objectives, with a sustained commitment to contributing to their success. Our team of strategic accountants, financial advisors and business consultants helps business leaders generate opportunities, achieve growth and create wealth. With an equal passion, this vision applies to each of our service areas.
Ambassadors of our brand: The active commitment of each of our partners and team members
Through their energetic involvement, our partners and team members act as ambassadors for the firm and our brand, and front-line representatives of its ethics and culture. Through their strategic commitment, they help create the value, growth and wealth of any organization. Our business model is built on solid relationships, firmly established throughout our entire team and clientele, because all relationships, even business relationships, are first and foremost about people.
www.richter.ca
Deloitte
A story that matters
We believe that we’re only as good as the good we do.
All the facts and figures that talk to our size and diversity and years of history, as notable and important as they may be, are secondary to the truest measure of  Deloitte : The impact we make in the world.
So, when people ask, “What’s different about Deloitte?” the answer resides in the many specific examples of where we have helped Deloitte member firm clients, our people, and sections of society to achieve remarkable goals, solve complex problems, or make meaningful progress. Deeper still, it’s in the beliefs, behaviors, and fundamental sense of purpose that underpin all that we do.
With more than 150 years of hard work and commitment to making a real difference, our organization has grown in scale and diversity—approximately 245,000 people in 150 countries and territories, providing audit, tax, legal, financial advisory, risk advisory, and consulting services—yet our shared culture remains the same.
For us, good isn’t good enough. We aim to be the best at all that we do—to help clients realize their ambitions, to make a positive difference in society, and to maximize the success of our people. This drive fuels the commitment and humanity that run deep through our every action.
That’s what makes us truly different at Deloitte. Not how big we are, where we are, nor what services we offer. What really defines us is our drive to make an impact that matters in the world.
www.deloitte.ca
Collins Barrow
Collins Barrow is committed to the highest level of integrity, quality and professionalism and provides clients with solutions in the area of Audit, Tax and Transaction Services.
With offices from coast to coast, Collins Barrow is one of Canada’s largest associations of chartered accounting firms and the eighth largest group of chartered professional accountants in the country. Known as Canada’s mid-market alternative for audit, tax and advisory solutions, we have developed a reputation for being a real choice for quality and value-added financial advice, due to the depth and breadth of our in-house skills, customized offerings and service excellence.
We serve companies at all stages of their development, from large publicly traded companies to emerging and owner-managed businesses. Our clients come from a cross-section of industries, including private equity, manufacturing, industrial, wholesale, retail and distribution, professional services, farming and agriculture, financial services, real estate and land development, hospitality and entertainment, technology and communications, energy and mining, biotech and not-for-profit. Our understanding and first-hand knowledge of the trends impacting these industries continue to prove that our professionals are well- positioned to offer valuable and effective solutions.
Collins Barrow is an independent member of Baker Tilly International, the world’s eighth largest accountancy and business advisory network by combined fee income. Together, we offer clients an established platform and access to the highest quality resources in the global marketplace.
Independent, responsive and trusted, we are the true national alternative. Collins Barrow, Clarity Defined®.
http://collinsbarrow.com
CASA JMSB
WELCOME TO CASAJMSB
On behalf of the Commerce and Administration Students’ Association, it is with immense pleasure that I welcome you to the John Molson School of Business
CASAJMSB is your undergraduate student association at the John Molson School of Business. Our six associations, eight committees and CASA executive team are composed of over 200 student volunteers who organize events and manage services for the students of JMSB.
While the curriculum at JMSB prepares you with the theoretical knowledge to get started in the real world, there is no experience equivalent to getting involved with CASA and its subsidiaries. In my first semesters, I was the student who would schedule all of his classes on one day to minimize the amount of time that I had to spend at school. This all changed after I got involved, where I was purposely spreading my schedule out to spend as much time at school as possible.
Whether this is your first year, last year, or somewhere in between, a big part of making the most out of your time at JMSB will be the commitment that you make to your studies and your involvement with extracurricular activities. I highly encourage you to make 2017 the year that you get involved with CASA or one of its subsidiaries, as it will truly change your university experience.
www.casajmsb.com
Wolters Kluwer
We are a global company that provides information, software, and services. Our customers are legal, business, tax, accounting, finance, audit, risk, compliance, and healthcare professionals.
http://wolterskluwer.com
KPMG
KPMG operates in over 35 locations across Canada. The firm’s more than 700 partners and more than 6,000 employees provide crucial services to many of the top business, not for profit and government organizations in Canada. We work closely with our clients, helping them to manage risks and take advantage of opportunities.
www.kpmg.com
Goldsmith Hersh
About Goldsmith Hersh
We are a medium-sized professional practice where people work together in an attempt to attain the highest standards of excellence. Our environment is conducive to creating a camaraderie between our personnel both in and out of the office. Our team attempts to provide our clients with quality, timely and personalized services using the latest technological tools available. Each of our members has the benefit of a personal computer and software which provides them with the most advanced tools to perform their tasks.
We offer training sessions in accounting, auditing techniques, taxation, financial issues, the use of commercial computer programs, and in human behaviour. We invite guest speakers and both staff and partners participate in both lecturing and learning. This program of training is complementary to the academic requirements of the Quebec Order of Chartered Professional Accountants.
Socially, we celebrate Christmas, and conclusion of the tax season, and enjoy our annual one-day summer picnic. These are opportunities to party and have fun together and to enjoy socializing with our confreres in a non-business environment. Traditionally, we close for the week of Christmas to New Years so that all may enjoy the holidays with their families.
We offer advancement as quickly as one can cope with the added responsibility. Salaries and performance are reviewed annually. Our partners have evolved from the pool of audit staff having demonstrated the appropriate qualities to represent our firm to the public.
http://gmhca.com
Concordia CPA Graduate program
An innovative CPA program built on a tradition of academic excellence and designed to meet the needs of the next generation of accounting professionals. JMSB enjoys a long and proud tradition of excellence in graduate accounting education.
Our CPA program builds on the consistently successful results of our former CA and Executive CMA programs, and our students achieved excellent first-time writer pass rates for Common Final Examinations (CFE); several made the CFE National Honour Roll.
The graduate diploma accommodates students with career objectives both within, and outside of, public accountancy, which is determined by their choice.
Want to learn more about us and the program?
Visit us here
Nexia Friedman
Nexia Friedman
At Nexia Friedman, we understand the needs you have as students and future professionals. To assist you as much as possible in the transition, we offer the following:
A creative, informal and professional working environment where you can achieve your full potential and attain our high professional standards.
Formal training, on-the-job training and ongoing professional development.
The flex-time you need to attend class and prepare for exams.
The opportunity, , after you have completed our summer program, to work part-time with us in your third year at school in order to stay connected with us and to complement your studies with practical experience.
A fun place to work! We hold several social events throughout the year and invite all employees, even students who have not started yet, to join us.
A place where we give back to the community.
Want useful tools to help you navigate the recruitment season?  Check out our website for tools available to you 24/7, including:
Firm Tours & School Cocktail networking guide
CACEE writing guide
Interview skills guide
Home
Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton
About Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton
Founded in 1948, Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton is a Canadian leader in the areas of assurance, tax, advisory services and business recovery and reorganization. With more than 2,300 professionals including close to 200 partners, the firm assists its clients achieve their full growth potential both locally and globally.
As the top accounting firm in Quebec, we serve organizations in all socio-economic activity sectors: SMEs, large businesses and public and parapublic organizations.
Within Canada, together with its counterpart Grant Thornton LLP, Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton provides its clients access to more than 4,200 professionals, including approximately 370 partners.
Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton is a member of Grant Thornton International Ltd, a solid global network of firms located throughout the world.
www.rcgt.com
PSB Boisjoli
OUR FIRM
Over half a century ago, three intuitive visionaries pooled their skills to create a company that would become one of Quebec’s largest chartered professional accounting firms.
Their mission: to cultivate a trust relationship with small, determined entrepreneurs seeking expertise and experience in the financial services sector.
Today, this mission continues to provide an infinite source of inspiration for the more than 160 energetic members of PSB Boisjoli’s remarkable team.
For strategic, tax, and estate planning, audit and assurance services, and corporate financing and restructuring, PSB Boisjoli ranks among Quebec’s most highly regarded firms. Our strong affiliation with the HR management firm Solertia further bolsters our ability to place the human dimension at the centre of our practice, and we are also affiliated with PrimeGlobal, the third largest association of independent accounting firms in the world.
Here at PSB Boisjoli, our professionals are not content to simply fulfill the terms of a mandate. Rather, we strive to use our insight, discernment, and unfaltering dedication to act as genuine and experienced business partners.
Just like our company’s founders, we apply the same standard of excellence to satisfying our clients’ objectives as we would our own.
Accueil
BDO
Global presence, local strength.
BDO Canada has spent more than 90 years providing assurance, accounting, tax, and advisory services to a broad range of clients across the country. And as a member firm of the international BDO network, we leverage access to resources and advisors in more than 150 countries around the world.
Founded in 1921, we have grown from a single office in Winnipeg to more than 3,000 partners and professionals in over 100 offices across Canada. Yet our strengths remain firmly rooted in the communities we serve.
At BDO, we aim to create a collaborative working environment that makes it possible for our professionals and clients to achieve their goals. We always begin at the local, individual level, delivering highly personalized guidance, industry-specific knowledge, and unparalleled service to exceed the expectations of every client – public or private, big or small. And as our team and our clients’ needs expand globally, we draw on our resources around the world.
https://www.bdo.ca
Crowe BGK
In 67 years, we have grown, developed and evolved into a multicity firm, with a multitude of disciplines in audit, tax and advisory services. The one constant since 1950 is that our focus remains solidly upon our team members and our clients. We carefully select, train, develop and coach our professionals to challenge themselves, take pride in their work, pay attention to the details and sustain a clear vision. This creates an ownership and accountability in addressing all of our client needs. Our team strives to deliver effective and innovative solutions to our clients which results in business success; focusing on the right things at the right moment to avert business issues and running their business with a peace of mind.
We are fortunate and proud at Crowe BGK as the family atmosphere that developed when the firm only had three partners in the early 50’s continues today. As I look around and see the level of friendships formed, social activities carried out both within and outside the firm and our health-conscious partners whom have created a fantastic following in their in-firm spinning classes and running club. This all contributes to a healthy, happy and fun atmosphere that helps keep everyone focused and maintains motivation throughout the many busy periods and tight deadlines an accounting firm is subject to throughout the year.
We enjoy the long and strong relationships we have with our clients, many dating to the founding of our firm. We make it our priority to stay engaged in their business. We are well-versed in the varied industries where we provide services. Our partners take their expertise, experience and knowledge while factoring industry-specific elements in today’s economy to successfully guide and advise their clients. We take pride in being our clients’ primary business resource.
If you landed on this page as a client, we thank you for your patronage and we will certainly speak to you soon. If you are a prospect, we are pleased to see you have landed here and encourage you to call me or one of our partners to discuss in greater detail how we may help you. For university students and experienced candidates please check  our career page  to see if Crowe BGK is a fit for you and for potential career opportunities.
Home
EY
At EY, we are committed to building a better working world— with increased trust and confidence in business, sustainable growth, development of talent in all its forms, and greater collaboration.
We want to build a better working world through our own actions and by engaging with like-minded organizations and individuals. This is our purpose — and why we exist as an organization.
Running through our organization is a strong sense of obligation to serve a number of different stakeholders who count on us to deliver quality and excellence in everything we do.
We want to use our global reach and scale to convene the conversation about the challenges facing economies and the capital markets.
When business works better, the world works better
www.ey.ca
About Us
The John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS) is a non-profit student-run organization representing the Accounting students of the John Molson School of Business. We are a subsidiary of CASAJMSB.
Contact Us
John Molson Accounting Society (JMAS)
O: 514-848-2424 ext 2855
F: 514-848-7436 attn JMAS
E: info@jmas.ca
John Molson School of Business (JMSB)
Concordia University
1450 Guy Street, MB 4.118
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Affiliates
CASAJMSB
Accountancy Major
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Ordre des CPAs du Québec
jmas.ca - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top
