PwC | Canada
Share
Linkedin twitter FB GooglePlus
Français
Cyprus South Africa Estonia Finland Hungary Gibraltar Slovenia Trinidad and Tobago Macedonia Nigeria Cayman Islands Caribbean Pakistan Equatorial Guinea Liberia Mongolia Portugal Channel Islands Sri Lanka Armenia Maldives Ecuador Croatia India Moldova Vietnam South Korea Czech Republic Netherlands Kazakhstan Philippines Indonesia Greece Turkey Norway PRTM Japan Hong Kong United Kingdom UK Cambodia British Virgin Islands Netherlands Antilles Brunei Zimbabwe Costa Rica Iceland United States US USA U.S. Middle East Region Middle East Bahrain Egypt Iraq Jordan Kuwait Lebanon Libya Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates West Bank Gaza Botswana Denmark Panama Singapore Tanzania Spain Interaméricas Romania Kenya Laos Malta Bulgaria Congo (Brazzaville) Global Israel Austria Swaziland Bolivia Colombia Georgia Italy (PwC) Ghana Thailand Zambia Albania Switzerland Rwanda Jamaica Malaysia Sweden Madagascar New Caledonia Papua New Guinea Belgium Ukraine Latvia Venezuela Bermuda Cameroon Honduras Argentina Brasil Mozambique Cape Verde New Zealand Azerbaijan Guinea Senegal Uruguay Barbados Poland France Uganda Russia Malawi China Paraguay Namibia Bahamas Montenegro Nicaragua Kosovo Dominican Republic Peru PwC Google ILC Legal Slovakia Uzbekistan Ireland (Republic of) Lithuania El Salvador Angola Central and Eastern Europe Mexico Gabon Japan Taiwan Chad Bosnia and Herzegovina Canada Myanmar Congo (Dem. Rep.) Guatemala Serbia Luxembourg Mauritius Chile Isle of Man Australia Belarus Germany
No match found
PwC Canada
PwC Canada
Explore PwC
Services
Industries
Private Company Services
Offices
Careers
Events
About us
Alumni
Press room
Research & insights
Explore
About us
Industries
Services
Research and Insights
Alumni
Our organization
Careers
Corporate responsibility
Events
About us
Diversity and inclusion
Offices
Aerospace and defence
Banking & capital markets
Energy
Financial services
Industrial manufacturing
Mining
Private equity
Retail and consumer
Asset management
Chemicals
Engineering and construction
Forest, paper and packaging
Insurance
Pharmaceuticals and life sciences
Public sector and government
Technology
Automotives
Communications
Entertainment and media
Healthcare
Metals
Power and utilities
Real estate
Transportation and logistics
Accounting Advisory Services
Deals
Forensic Services
Japanese Business Network
Current Insolvency Assignments
Audit and assurance
Risk assurance
PwC Law LLP
French Desk
Private Company Services
Consulting
Tax
China Business Network
Perspective North
Analytics
Digital transformation
PwC’s 365® thought leadership app
Cities of opportunity 7
DirectorConnect
Strategy&
Cybersecurity and Privacy
Global CEO survey
Vision to reality
Applications for the 2018 V2R Awards are now open
Apply today!
MoneyTree Canada Q3'17 report Canadian tech rebounds and is on track for a $2B+ funding year Learn more
It’s time to rethink business Create possibility through transformation Learn more
Junior mine: Confidence rekindled Explore our analysis of the top 100 junior mining companies on the TSX-V. Learn more
Insights
Deals industry insights
A quarterly view of deal activity.
The road to cannabis legalization
The revolutionary legislation for the legalization of recreational cannabis is set to be enacted in 2018, compelling Canadian institutions to reshape how they operate legally, socially and economically. To bring this legislation to market in a responsible way, many regulatory and operational changes must be made.
Mine 2017: Stop. Think... Act.
PwC’s 14th annual review of global trends in the mining industry – Mine. This analysis is based on the financial performance and position of the global mining industry as represented by the Top 40 mining companies by market capitalisation.
Digital IQ 2017—Canadian insights
Since 2007, Digital IQ has examined how far organizations have come and and what's needed to unlock value from the next generation of digital technologies.
Load more
Press releases
Increased Investment, Rising Consumer Technology Demands Responsible for Renewed Confidence in Junior Mining Sector
Canada’s junior mining sector is seeing renewed confidence as valuations rose for the second year in a row, according to PwC Canada’s Junior mine 2017 report.
Slow and steady, third quarter IPO market still far ahead of last year: PwC survey
The recovery in the Canadian market for initial public offerings slowed slightly in the third quarter but the momentum from a strong start should carry the market to a respectable level of deals and new equity through the end of the year.
PwC Canada's Submission to the Department of Finance - Tax Planning Using Private Corporations
On Monday October 2, PwC Canada delivered its submission to the Department of Finance.
PwC Canada Using Innovation To Tackle Youth Unemployment
PwC Canada has launched a new corporate responsibility initiative focused on addressing the issue of youth unemployment in Canada. PwC Canada’s Young People Project will empower the firm’s partners and staff to utilize their time and talent to provide digital literacy training, coaching and meaningful mentorship experiences.
View all
Load more
Innovation
PwC wins international award for AI audit technology
PwC recently received International Accounting Bulletin’s Audit Innovation of the Year for GL.ai, a revolutionary bot that uses advanced AI technology to detect anomalies in a company’s general ledger (currently in prototype phase).
Vision to Reality Awards #V2R
PwC Canada's Vision to Reality Awards program recognizes the most innovative organizations in Canada.
How the Internet of Things will change insurance
Technology
PwC's technology services helps companies of all sizes manage the unique challenges of doing business in the tech sector.
Up front magazine
Up front is PwC Canada's flagship thought leadership magazine.
Learn more
Careers
PwC is all about you. Your personal and professional development, your achievement, your lifelong learning, your individuality and your choices. Whether you're just starting out or an experienced professional, your future starts here.
Explore PwC careers
Alumni
Our alumni program is about helping you stay a part of the PwC community and connecting you to former colleagues, mentors and friends who have made an impact in your career. It’s also about keeping you up to date with current business issues and regulatory changes through the firm’s various publications, reports, events and webinars.
View Alumni program
Follow PwC Canada
About Us
Careers
Alumni
Follow us on Twitter
Office Locations
Contact Us
© 2015-2017 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
Privacy
Cookies info
Legal
Terms & Conditions
Site Provider
Sitemap
Accessibility
