Skip to content
En
Fr
About Us
Services
Team
Careers
Publications
Contact
En
Fr
Real Solutions
for Real Growth
Discover what makes us unique
Slice of life
Video Portrait: Discover Kristina Ashqar
If you think diligence, motivation, and an entrepreneurial spirit can’t co-exist with morning exercise, a solid relationship and a good cup of coffee, think again! Each of these elements make up an essential part of a day in the life of Kristina Ashqar, Audit and Assurance Manager, and one of PSB Boisjoli’s most well-known professionals. Check out this video and discover this pro who has brilliantly mastered the art of work-life balance.
See Video
Our team
Over 160 Professionals who are Passionate about Numbers.
Meet them
Our services
Audit and Assurance
A company’s financial statements are a reflection of its overall health, and their users base important decisions on the information they contain. Let us meet these corporate needs for you.
Taxation
The foundation you create determines the stability and sustainability of your enterprise, and this means having a solid and fully-optimised tax structure. Let us get you there.
Business Advisory
Birth, growth, development, and maturity: the story of your business will be punctuated by change, transition, and transformation. Let us guide you along this journey with total peace of mind.
Corporate Business Group
If you are looking to minimise your taxes, protect your assets, boost your growth, and maximise the value of your business, our experts can show you the way.
Services for Not-For-Profit (NFP) Organisations
Good governance require the officers and directors of non-profit organizations to diligently fulfill their fiduciary duties. Their personal liability may also be at stake. Only compliance with the laws results in income tax exemptions and consumption tax laws application can be complex.
Human Resources
Growth and sustainability depend on a strong, dedicated, and cohesive team. Our affiliation with the Solertia human resources management firm gives you access to today’s most sought after talent.
See Our Services Section
Careers
Thriving together
When it comes to professional development, achievement, and success, no one accomplishes this alone. At PSB Boisjoli, our core values begin with fostering a culture that will support you in fulfilling your professional objectives.
Learn More
News & Publications
Taxation
NEW TAX REFORM – UPDATE
As previously reported in our newsletter, on July 18th, 2017, federal Finance Minister Bill Morneau (“Morneau”) released for consultation a discussion paper and draft legislative proposals (the “Papers”) addressing tax planning arrangements using private corporations. It is the government’s view that these changes are necessary to close perceived tax loopholes and improve the fairness of […]
Read news
Taxation
THE LIGHT AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL
Over the past few years, Revenu Québec has developed a poor reputation amongst Quebec taxpayers and mandataries. Public trust of Revenu Québec has been damaged by several articles reporting on overzealous tax officers, as well as by persistent rumours that Revenu Québec had been imposing quotas on its auditors, creating incentives for them to find […]
Read news
Human Resources
EXPORTING IS NOW MORE ACCESSIBLE THAN EVER
Good news for SMB’s! The Provincial Export Program (PEX) is offering new and improved benefits for businesses. Are you looking to explore new markets, export, diversify your activities and/or expand your business opportunities? The Provincial Export Program can help! Initiated by the Quebec Ministry of Economy, Science and Innovation, PEX has recently increased available funds […]
Read news
See Our News & Publications Section
Our Offices
Unpretentiously Elegant
Sleek urban décor, a friendly and unpretentious atmosphere, intelligently designed relaxation areas and meeting rooms, stunning views and outdoor patios: we have stopped at nothing to make you feel right at home. Whether you arrive by metro, car, or bike – an office in keeping with your professionalism awaits you.
Visit Our Offices
Newsletter
Subscribe to receive our latest news and publications
Subscribe
Your email adress has been added to the list.
Location
3333 Graham Boulevard, Suite 400
Montréal, QC  H3R 3L5
(De la Savane Metro station)
Contact
Phone: 514-341-5511
Fax: 514-342-0589
info@psbboisjoli.ca
Follow us
Sitemap
© PSB Boisjoli 2017. Web design : Pixel Circus
