Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
About
Recruitment
Academics
Major in Human Resource Management
Major in Management
Minors
CRHA/CPHR Designation
Sponsorship
Contact
Select Page
CRHA & CPHR Designation
FAQs
Considering becoming a certified Human Resources professional? Scroll down for frequently asked questions about the CRHA and CPHR designations and the attainment procedure. If you have any further questions, feel free to email Cindy Hanna, VP Human Resources at c.hanna@JHMA.ca or Mary Wargachuk, Career Advisor at CMS, at mary.wargachuk@concordia.ca .
What is the CHRP Certification?
The HR professional Order (L’Ordre des Conseillers en Ressources Humaines Agréés) describes the CRHA designation as the “most recognized and sought-after mark of an HR professional.”
What is the difference between CPHR, CHRP, CRHA?
CPHR
The Chartered Professional in Human Resources. It recently changed its name as it was previously called CHRP. It is the national title for human resources professionals in Canada.
CRHA
Conseiller en ressources humaines agréé. It is the professional title for human resources professionals in Quebec.
What are the benefits of the certification?
Professional credibility
Access to greater career opportunities
Competitive compensation
Continuous professional development
Networking opportunities
Proven expertise
Ethical behavior
As a JMSB student, how can I obtain my certification?
In the past, our HRM graduates have had to pass an examination to get their certification. As of January 2016, however, JMSB Human resources management graduates who have passed the following 14 courses can apply for CHRA certification without having to take the examination:
COMM222
COMM226
COMM315
COMM401
MANA341
MANA362
MANA366
MANA420
MANA443
MANA444
MANA445
MANA446
MANA463
 
MANA479
 
Upon completion of all classes listed above, you can simply submit your application to the Order for approval. However, you might have to pass a French examination if needed. You can access the certification form throughout CRHA website: http://www.portailrh.org/devenirmembre/ .
What is the application process?
There are 4 easy steps to the application process;
Fill in the admission request form
Include a copy of your diploma and official transcript (Before January 2016)
Add the payment for the inscription and the certification fees
If applicable, join proof of French language proficiency
Do I need to speak French to get certified?
As an Anglophone university student, you might be asked to take a French language exam offered by l’Office Québécois de la Langue Française. However, if you have an attestation from L’OQLF or fit the (3) requirements below, you will be exempted from the test:
Have completed at least 3 years of full-time high-school, or post-secondary education in French
Have successfully passed the French ministerial examination for secondary 4 and 5 in High school
Having obtained a High-school diploma in Quebec after the following academic year: 1985-1986
How do you maintain your professional certification?
You need to pay your annual dues (every year in March) as well as complete 60 hours per 3 years of professional training in varying competencies.
What are the fees associated with the CRHA designation?
As a recently graduated student (less than 12 months ago) you are eligible for a discount on the annual dues. The amount gets a monthly discount as it approaches the new annual certification renewal in April. For example, if you decide to get certified in April 2016 (full year certification), your annual dues would approximatively $287. However, if you get certified in December 2016, the amount would be of 95.82$.
I am majoring in Management; can I still get certified? I am minoring in Human Resources; can I still get certified?
Yes, anyone who has done at least 6 classes in HRM can get certified. However, your classes will have to get approved by the order and you will have to write an examination testing your knowledge on the 7 specializations of Human resources.
Do employers reimburse the training and annual fees?
It is at their discretion, if not; keep the receipts for your annual income taxes.
I am finishing my bachelor in December but my graduation is not until May, can I still apply for the certification even if I have not received my diploma yet?
Yes, you can follow the application instructions above as long as you have met the requirements for graduation. However, instead of a copy of our diploma, you will have to join a letter from Birks Student’s Services attesting to the fact that you have completed your B. Comm degree, majoring in Human Resources Management.
Can my CRHA certification can be transferred to another province in Canada?
Yes, your certification can be transferred to other provinces. However, they might have some restrictions that you will need to comply with.
What resources do I have access to as a student?
The CRHA website has a dedicated space reserved for students where it will be possible to find many useful resources. Throughout this website, you can have access to a job bank exclusively for members, free subscription to HR documentation, and many more tools for your success.
Affiliates
CRHA
CASAJMSB
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Career Management Services
Affiliates
CRHA
CASAJMSB
John Molson School of Business
Concordia University
Career Management Services
Contact us
1450 Guy Street Montreal
Quebec, Canada, H3H 0A1
Room: MB 4.445
Email: info@jmhra.com
Follow us
facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
