Canada
English English
IBM®
Site map
IBM
IBM Client Innovation Centre Montreal
Welcome to the IBM Client
Innovation Centre (CIC) Montreal
Part of IBM’s network of Global Business Services Client Innovation Centres
The Centre
CIC Montreal delivers high-quality, competitive application development and support services to private and public clients in Canada. CIC Montreal is part of IBM’s global network of IBM Client Innovation Centres and offers the benefits of a bilingual global centre, plus additional advantages associated with close proximity to our Canadian clients. This enables us to reduce their costs while increasing productivity, quality, efficiency, and speed, as well as offering access to a wide array of skills that help our clients innovate faster and rapidly adopt new technologies.
 
Location Benefits
Located in Montreal, this centre also leverages operations in Quebec City.
Thanks to its location, CIC Montreal offers the ability to tap into the important local pool of IT resources that are bilingual and possess significant international experience. With its central position in the North American north-east region, this centre is facilitated in building and managing face-to-face relationships that require frequent and direct interactions within North American time zones. The close proximity, travel options and very good understanding of Canadian and US regulatory and cultural requirements are other characteristics that are appreciated by our clients.
Launched in 2016, CIC Montreal aims to grow to several hundred employees by 2020. Partnerships with local universities will allow CIC Montreal to influence their curriculum to support the technical expertise our clients need and to benefit from the thousands of technology new grads the local universities yield each year.
Skills and Business Practices
CIC Montreal provides the following capabilities:
IBM Platforms Services
IBM DataPower
IBM ECM
IBM Sterling
Enterprise Applications Services
Oracle
SAP
Workday
Development Services
Java
.NET
Web
Analytic Services
ETL
Big Data
Business Intelligence
Test Services
 
CIC Montreal’s Strengths
CIC Montreal has a wide variety of strengths including:
Highly-trained professionals with leading-edge technology skills
Multicultural and bilingual staff who serve clients in both English and French
Strong local presence of IBM in Quebec and Canada for 100 years.
Culturally diverse environment
Close proximity to 6 universities with technology programs
Extensive training programs within CIC Montreal
The Benefits for our Clients
CIC Montreal provides high quality IT services at competitive prices to its Canadian customers who require technical expertise in the development, optimization and management of their enterprise applications. This nearshore development centre is part of the worldwide network of IBM customer innovation centres. It provides world-class IT services, bilingual resources, and all the benefits of geographic proximity to our Canadian private and public clients. These attributes allow them to reduce their costs while increasing their productivity, their levels of quality, their efficiency and their time to market. By offering access to our wide range of local expertise, our customers can adopt new technologies more quickly and innovate faster.
What our clients are saying:
Serge Fortier, Chief Information Officer at Agropur cooperative: "The creation of the Montreal CIC gives Agropur Cooperative, as well as other Quebec companies, a direct and rapid access to a pool of skills crucial to the evolution of our technologies, skills that would otherwise be hired from outside the province or country. The successes achieved to date are encouraging and spur us to greater use of CIC Montreal resources”.
Martin Constant, Director of IT Infrastructure & Operations at Cascades: "Cascades is undergoing a major transformation and we had to find a way to add flexibility to the services we offer to our business units. Fast access to qualified and bilingual resources is a challenge for us. Integrating the Montreal CIC in our model gives us much more latitude”.
Our Globally Integrated Capability Network
IBM has an expansive Global Delivery Network that consists of tens of thousands of professionals. IBM utilizes centre-based standard tools and processes to create a more efficient distribution of workload, more consistent delivery outcomes and to drive productivity improvements and value for IBM clients.            IBM's Global Delivery Services help clients solve complex IT challenges through staffing optimization and continuous innovation:
Application Development
Agile development and testing
Mobility and application development
Testing analytics and accelerators
Application Management Services (AMS)
Infrastructure Services
Business Process Services
Do you need more Information?
CIC Montreal is operated by LGS, a fully owned subsidiary of IBM. Should you need further information on CIC Montreal, please visit us at http://www.lgs.com/en/
Contact us
Email IBM
Or call us at: 1-866-426-4252
Contacto
Privacidad
Condiciones de uso
Accesibilidad
