
Toggle navigation
About Us
Mission
Our History
Our Executive Team
Blog
Spacecraft Division
ConSat-1
Aleksandr
Ground Station
Rocketry Division
Arcturus
Aurelius
Special Projects
Robotics
Sponsors
Contact Us
Join the Team!
Contact Form
FAQ
Donate
Our Mission
About Us
Space Concordia is an award-winning, multidisciplinary student society of over 200 students from various fields of study working in different subdivisions such as Spacecraft, Ground Station, Rocketry and Robotics. The society’s mission is twofold:
First, to provide a platform of end-to-end projects where students can exercise their passion for space.
Second, to inform individuals of all ages about the space industry and to inspire the next generation of Canadian space advocates.
Space Concordia makes a continuous effort to be more than just your average student society with a typical competition-based structure; we aim to be similar to a space agency where we show our expertise not only through the projects we develop, but also through the actions we do on a larger scale to benefit society as a whole.
Educational Outreach
Space Concordia is dedicated not only to building projects, but also to introducing the public to space. We love to share our knowledge and experience to different spheres of society. We present to multiple areas, from the local elementary school to the IAC international congress.
The Space field already has a widely appreciated appeal, and is generally respected by the public. What Space Concordia attempts to show is the fact that not only is Space interesting, but that it is also very accessible, may it be through a career or simply a hobby. Space Concordia aims to inspire people to go the extra step and explore the many possibilities of today’s technology and wonder about the unknowns of space.
Through their numerous outreach activities, the team wishes to not only provide their audience with general knowledge of space, but also with the intent to pursue those interests in a concrete manner. This is especially the case for their younger audience.
Follow Us
       
