Site maintenance
ConcordiaStores.ca will be down for scheduled maintenance November 22nd between 8AM-9AM EST.
×
Free shipping over $75*
Our stores Alumni New students Faculty & staff
log in / register
log in / register
Search:
Search
Courselist Booklist
Your account
Wishlist
Cart
Checkout
Log in / register
Menu Search
Courselist Booklist
0
Recently added item(s) ×
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Textbooks .
New
Fast shipping right to
your front door
Used
Save up to 25% on used textbooks
Digital
Get instant access to course material
Rent
Rent for the term and save up to 60%
Sell your textbooks
Get cash for your
textbooks
Reference material
Dictionaries, thesauruses, study prep, and more!
Technology .
Accessories
Printers & ink
Software
Storage & networking
Popular categories
Headphones & speakers
USB keys
Apple for education
Apparel .
Accessories
Bags
Outerwear
Shorts
Sweatpants
Sweatshirts
Tops
Popular categories
T-Shirts
Hoodies
JMSB
Stingers
Scarves & mitts
For kids
Caps
Gifts .
Branded
Gift cards
Grad gifts
Memorabilia
Popular categories
Drinkware
Diploma frames
Grad rings
Supplies .
Fine Arts Lab Fees
Office & school supplies
Popular categories
Notebooks
Calculators
Lab coats
Printing .
DPrint
Print advisory
Print Store
Popular categories
DPrint account balance
WebPrint
Business cards
Services .
Athletics
Bike parking
Passport photos
PERFORM Centre
Special pricing for students!
Get back into shape with a Le Gym membership!
Sale
×
Search by course
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional). Example: ACCO 220 01
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional).
Example: ACCO 220 01
×
Student booklist
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
Home /
General policies
General policies
General policies
Merchandise may be returned for a refund within 10 working days from the date of purchase with original receipt and packaging (returned merchandise must be in a resalable condition for a refund). Opened or damaged merchandise will be subject to a re-stocking charge. The store manager reserves the right to determine saleability of merchandise. Purchases made with a credit or debit card can only be refunded onto the same card as the original purchase. A valid staff, faculty or student Concordia ID must be presented for all academically priced items. Special order items are not returnable.
Pricing policies
Listed prices do not include applicable taxes. Prices and specifications are subject to change without notice. Concordia Stores (in-store) accepts: Interac, MasterCard, Visa, AMEX and cash. Some items are subject to Environmental Handing Fees (E.H.F.).
ConcordiaStores.ca accepts online Interac payments with the following banks: Bank of Montreal, TD Canada Trust*, Scotiabank and Royal Bank of Canada. (*Please note: TD Canada Trust clients with an access card containing both the Interac and Visa logos are not set up to access the Interac Payment Service). Payment may also be made online using all popular credit cards, VISA, MasterCard and American Express (prepaid cards and VISA debit cards are not accepted).
Out of stock coursepacks
All sold out (or currently out of stock) coursepacks become a print on demand item. Please visit the store to pre-pay and order your copy.
Course material returns
Custom courseware materials are not returnable. Shrink-wrapped books are not returnable once opened. Online access codes (PIN codes, eBooks, etc.) are not returnable once they are redeemed. All rented books must be returned by their due date. If a rented book is not returned by the due date, the full retail value of the book will be charged to your student account. Due dates may be found on your original receipt.
Fine Arts fees returns
Fine Arts fees may only be returned if the relevant course is dropped and the fee is unredeemed. A course withdrawal form and original receipt must be presented for a full refund.
Le Gym refunds
When accompanied by your original receipt & MEMBERSHIP CARD within seven (14)  days of the date of your purchase, we will be happy to refund your purchase in full. If a credit card or debit card was used as original tender, we will issue a refund to that card/account within the following two (2) business days. If you do not have your original receipt and/or  MEMBERSHIP CARD and you used a credit card or debit card for payment, we will do our best to obtain your purchase transaction from our system to process your exchange/refund. If we cannot locate your original purchase transaction, you will receive a Credit for a future Membership at Le Gym.
Computer and electronic accessory returns Opened software is not returnable. Manufacturer guidelines apply for defective hardware returns. Headphones/Earphones are considered hygienic products therefore all sales are considered final.
Online purchases
Items may be returned 10 working days after you receive your order General return policies apply for online orders (please see above). If we made an error with your purchase, please contact us as soon as possible and we will make arrangements to have your purchase returned and re-shipped to you. If you wish to return your order, please note that shipping costs are at the customers expense. Contact us for more details. Online purchases may be returned in stores (Sir George Williams Bookstore or Loyola Bookstore) following the same guidelines as listed above. Shipping charges are non-refundable.
Art Supply Store Returns
No returns or exchanges on fabric, paper (this includes sheets or quantities sold off the roll) or dry mounting tissue. No returns or exchanges on 16mm film and Super 8 film. No returns or exchanges on opened products. No returns on wood.
Fine Arts Lab and Material Fees Return
Fine Arts Fees may only be returned with approval from the Fine Arts department.
Terms & shipping policies
Prices and availability may change without notice. All orders will be shipped to the shipping address listed on the order. We make every effort to provide used books when requested but sometimes they are purchased by "in-store" customers before we can pull them for your order. Canada Post delivery estimates are provided as reference only.
DPrint
DPrint account top-ups are not refundable.
Gift cards
Gift cards are not refundable.
Store policies
Privacy policies
General policies
Le Gym regulations
Click & Collect
PERFORM Centre
Politiques du magasin
Politique en matière de confidentialité
Modalités de retour et d’expédition
Règlement du centre de conditionnement physique « Le Gym »
Modalités du service de retrait en librairie
Centre PERFORM
Newsletter sign-up
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Sign up to receive our latest deals and promotions right to your inbox.
Student booklist
Enter in  your 8-digit student ID:
List books
Enter your Concordia student ID to look up your personalized student booklist.
Back to top
Textbooks
Technology
Apparel
Gifts
Supplies
Printing
Services
Sale
About us
General policies
Privacy policies
Click & Collect
Be part of the team
Locations & hours
Contact us
Customer support
Custom orders
Sponsorship
Comments / suggestions
Quick links
Faculty & staff services
Book Stop directory
Sell your textbooks
Textbook rentals
Fine Arts lab fees
News & events
Gift cards
Concordia Stores social
© Concordia University    Terms     Privacy     Accessibility    
