Site maintenance
ConcordiaStores.ca will be down for scheduled maintenance November 22nd between 8AM-9AM EST.
×
Free shipping over $75*
Our stores Alumni New students Faculty & staff
log in / register
log in / register
Search:
Search
Courselist Booklist
Your account
Wishlist
Cart
Checkout
Log in / register
Menu Search
Courselist Booklist
0
Recently added item(s) ×
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Textbooks .
New
Fast shipping right to
your front door
Used
Save up to 25% on used textbooks
Digital
Get instant access to course material
Rent
Rent for the term and save up to 60%
Sell your textbooks
Get cash for your
textbooks
Reference material
Dictionaries, thesauruses, study prep, and more!
Technology .
Accessories
Printers & ink
Software
Storage & networking
Popular categories
Headphones & speakers
USB keys
Apple for education
Apparel .
Accessories
Bags
Outerwear
Shorts
Sweatpants
Sweatshirts
Tops
Popular categories
T-Shirts
Hoodies
JMSB
Stingers
Scarves & mitts
For kids
Caps
Gifts .
Branded
Gift cards
Grad gifts
Memorabilia
Popular categories
Drinkware
Diploma frames
Grad rings
Supplies .
Fine Arts Lab Fees
Office & school supplies
Popular categories
Notebooks
Calculators
Lab coats
Printing .
DPrint
Print advisory
Print Store
Popular categories
DPrint account balance
WebPrint
Business cards
Services .
Athletics
Bike parking
Passport photos
PERFORM Centre
Special pricing for students!
Get back into shape with a Le Gym membership!
Sale
×
Search by course
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional). Example: ACCO 220 01
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional).
Example: ACCO 220 01
×
Student booklist
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
Home /
Jobs
Working for Concordia Stores
What kind of jobs are available at Concordia Stores?
Typically we're hiring for what we call "casual part-time" positions, such as     cashiers, customer service clerks, and shipping/receiving clerks for Concordia Stores.
Please note that we are currently no longer hiring for the September 2017 session. Thank you to all that applied.
Warehouse - these positions requires heavy lifting and is in a fast-paced environment.     This position requires attention to detail, fluency in reading English and the ability to     work without distraction. During busy times some work is required on the sales floor shelving books.     The ability to work with computers in a Windows-based environment is required.
Customer Service - Help customers find what they are looking for, answer questions concerning all products offered in the stores, maintain displays and restock merchandise . Excellent communication skills are     required.
Cashiers - these positions are in a fast-paced environment (especially during the back-to-school rush), and     requires attention to detail, good communication skills, and a working knowledge of computers. Must have basic accounting skills.
How long do you hire for?
These are typically short-term employment opportunities. Many of these jobs are just for the busy     periods at the start of a new semester (about one month - depending on the position). There are a lot of positions available for back-to-school,     and the months leading up to it (ie. in the summer).
Do I have to be a student at Concordia University to work for Concordia Stores?
We focus on hiring Concordia students. Additionally, we welcome applications from local CEGEP students.
When is the best time to apply for a job?
The best time to apply for a job at the Bookstore is at least a month before the start of a new term in order     to allow time for training new staff before the back-to-school rushes begin.     So, the best times to apply are in June-July (Summer hiring for the September rush), and in November-December     (for the January back-to-school rush).
People for the stock room jobs are typically needed starting in early Summer when the     textbooks for the Fall term start arriving. Cashier & Customer Service positions are usually hired about a     month before the start of classes.
How do I apply?
Are you a Concordia University student?
Are you eligible for Work Study?
See if you're eligible and apply here .
Please email support@concordiastores.ca .    Include your CV and your available hours (Note: we do not operate on the weekend).         If you're an international student at Concordia, in order to show that you can work in Canada     legally, also please provide:
A photocopy of your Study Permit
Note that we usually get far more applications than there are jobs available - only people who are being asked in for       a meeting will be contacted.
To apply for other permanent and contract staff employment at Concordia University, please see the Human Resources web site. The HR department does not handle student       jobs, the various university departments do that directly.
For a list of other departments which regularly hire students, visit the Jobs for Students section of the     Concordia University main website.
Newsletter sign-up
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Sign up to receive our latest deals and promotions right to your inbox.
Student booklist
Enter in  your 8-digit student ID:
List books
Enter your Concordia student ID to look up your personalized student booklist.
Back to top
Textbooks
Technology
Apparel
Gifts
Supplies
Printing
Services
Sale
About us
General policies
Privacy policies
Click & Collect
Be part of the team
Locations & hours
Contact us
Customer support
Custom orders
Sponsorship
Comments / suggestions
Quick links
Faculty & staff services
Book Stop directory
Sell your textbooks
Textbook rentals
Fine Arts lab fees
News & events
Gift cards
Concordia Stores social
© Concordia University    Terms     Privacy     Accessibility    
