English
Français
Menu
About Us
Our Mission
Council of Representatives
Executive Team
Judicial Board
Funding and Fees
Directory
University Bodies
Senate
Board of Governors
Jobs @ CSU
Services
Advocacy Centre
Legal Information Clinic
Housing and Job Bank (HOJO)
Classifieds
Health and Dental Plan
Hive Loyola Free Lunch
Emergency Food Vouchers
Bookings
General Booking Terms and Conditions
CSU Mezzanine Information Tables Terms and Usage Policies
CSU Live Newsletter
Projects
Reggie's Bar Renovations
Daycare Service
Hive Café Solidarity Co-op
Cooperative Student Housing
Cooperative Housing Committee
Cooperative Housing Focus Group
Concordia Student Congress
Survey
Campaigns
Campaigns
Unpaid Internships
Climate Justice & Divestment
Anti-Consumerism
Past Campaigns
#BringBissanHome
Austerity
International Tuition Hike
Tribunals
Student Life
Fee Levy Groups
Student Groups & Associations
Bursaries at the CSU
Sustainability
Food Systems Reform
Sustainability Resources on Campus
Food System Special Project Funding Policy
Clubs
Active Clubs
Starting a New Club
How to Manage your Club
Resources
Apply for Funding
Apply for Funding
Special Project Funding
CSU Special Clubs Funding
CSU Community Action Fund
Food Systems Special Project Funding
CSU Committee Funding
Other Sources of Funding
Home › About Us
Judicial Board
 
The Judicial Board is the judiciary branch of the CSU. They are responsible for passing judgement on conflicts that occur in the interpretation of the CSU's By-Laws and Standing Regulations. The Judicial Board has the final word on how to interpret our rules, and their decisions often have profound implications for the Union. To view the Judicial Board Code of Procedures, click here .
1. The Judicial Board of the Student Union shall, upon the written request of any member or member association, convene to;
a. interpret these by-laws and the validity of regulations and resolutions enacted by the Council.
b. declare invalid any act of any member who through his or her action derogates from these by-laws or from the constitution of any member association of the Student Union.
c. settle disputes on matters concerning the Student Union between its members, officials and/or constituted bodies.
2. It is the duty of the Judicial Board to act upon any violation to By-Laws and constitutions of member associations that comes to light stemming from an ongoing investigation; even if such violations are not directly related to the originalcomplaint.
The CSU Judicial Board can be contacted via email at judicialboard@csu.qc.ca .
Quick Links
Login
Resources
Jobs
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email - info@csu.qc.ca
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved
