English
Français
Menu
About Us
Our Mission
Council of Representatives
Executive Team
Judicial Board
Funding and Fees
Directory
University Bodies
Senate
Board of Governors
Jobs @ CSU
Services
Advocacy Centre
Legal Information Clinic
Housing and Job Bank (HOJO)
Classifieds
Health and Dental Plan
Hive Loyola Free Lunch
Emergency Food Vouchers
Bookings
General Booking Terms and Conditions
CSU Mezzanine Information Tables Terms and Usage Policies
CSU Live Newsletter
Projects
Reggie's Bar Renovations
Daycare Service
Hive Café Solidarity Co-op
Cooperative Student Housing
Cooperative Housing Committee
Cooperative Housing Focus Group
Concordia Student Congress
Survey
Campaigns
Campaigns
Unpaid Internships
Climate Justice & Divestment
Anti-Consumerism
Past Campaigns
#BringBissanHome
Austerity
International Tuition Hike
Tribunals
Student Life
Fee Levy Groups
Student Groups & Associations
Bursaries at the CSU
Sustainability
Food Systems Reform
Sustainability Resources on Campus
Food System Special Project Funding Policy
Clubs
Active Clubs
Starting a New Club
How to Manage your Club
Resources
Apply for Funding
Apply for Funding
Special Project Funding
CSU Special Clubs Funding
CSU Community Action Fund
Food Systems Special Project Funding
CSU Committee Funding
Other Sources of Funding
Home › Services
Health and Dental Plan
 
As an undergraduate student registered for more than 3 credits and paying tuition fees at either the Canadian or Quebec rates, you are automatically covered by the CSU Health and Dental Plan.  The plan is a valuable service designed by your Student Union to fill the gap left by provincial health care.  The cost of the plan for a full-year’s coverage is $193.07 ($83.81 for Health, $109.26 for Dental)  and is included in your tuition bill.  If you are covered by another private insurance plan then you can opt out of this fee during the set change-of-coverage period. All enrolments must be completed during the appropriate Change-of-Coverage period. 
 
Benefits:
- Health Benefits: Prescriptions drugs, chiropractors, physiotherapy, travel coverage, medical equipment, vaccinations and more...
- Dental Benefits: Cleanings, checkups, fillings, rootcanals, gum treatments, extractions and more...
- Vision Benefits: Eye exams, glasses or contact lenses and laser eye surgery.
- Travel Benefits: You are covered for up to 120 days per trip and up to a maximum of $5,000,000 per incident.
- Tuition Benefits: In the event of a disability where you have to abandon your studies, the Plan will cover 100% of the cost of any non-refundable tuition fees, up to $10,000, and up to $1,000 for the cost of textbooks purchased for the current semester.
Check out  www.ihaveaplan.ca  for full details. 
Have a question? Need help claiming something? Come visit the CSU's Downtown (H-711) & Loyola (CC-426) offices between 10am and 5pm!
Quick Links
Login
Resources
Jobs
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email - info@csu.qc.ca
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved
