Editions
Sections
Home
Arts
Business + Economy
Culture + Society
Education
Environment + Energy
Health + Medicine
Politics
Science + Technology
Search
Services
Newsletter
Read on Flipboard
Information
Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Partners and funders
Contributing institutions
Contact us
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Corrections
Edition:
Available editions
Canada
Africa
Australia
France
Global Perspectives
Indonesia
United Kingdom
United States
Become an author
Sign up as a reader
Sign in
Get newsletter
Search
Academic rigor, journalistic flair
Arts
Business + Economy
Culture + Society
Education
Environment + Energy
Health + Medicine
Politics
Science + Technology
Montreal’s first female mayor represents new chapter in city’s rich history
November 7, 2017 6.17pm EST
Valérie Plante speaks to supporters on election night after being elected mayor of Montreal. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Graham Hughes
Montreal’s first female mayor represents new chapter in city’s rich history
November 7, 2017 6.17pm EST
Harold R. Chorney
Author
Harold R. Chorney
Professor of Political Economy, Concordia University
Disclosure statement
Harold R. Chorney does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.
Partners
Concordia University provides funding as a founding partner of The Conversation CA.
View all partners
Republish this article
Republish our articles for free, online or in print, under Creative Commons licence.
Email
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
WhatsApp
Messenger
Montreal has once again turned to the left, to bicycle-riding environmentalists and community activists, for its new mayor and governing party. Sunday’s election turnout was an unimpressive 42.46 per cent, but the result was nonetheless spectacular.
Valérie Plante is the first woman mayor of Montreal, and she represents a fairly radical but highly creative force in Quebec politics. Grappling with the city’s aging infrastructure will undoubtedly be one of her key challenges.
Plante defeated Denis Coderre decisively, capturing 243,242 votes to Coderre’s 216,104 votes. Plante’s party, Projet Montréal, also won the majority of the seats on city council   — 34 of the 65 available. This will enable the party to implement its platform although, as always, it leaves it vulnerable to arrogance in the exercise of power.
Projet Montréal was originally established by an idealistic urban planner, Richard Bergeron , an outspoken advocate of improved and environmentally friendly public transit.
The party has been the major opposition to more conservative, centrist parties that governed Montreal during a difficult decade, from 2002 to 2013, that included an economic slump and a major police corruption scandal .
Bergeron, in fact, switched sides and joined Coderre’s administration, but lost his seat on council this election   — a reminder that politics is cruel and politicians can fall victim both to the allure of fame and power and to a fickle electorate.
Plante makes history
Plante’s groundbreaking election is now part of Montreal’s rich political and economic history.
Before Montreal was a city, the island was occupied by the Iroquois. It then became a European colonial outpost linked to the fur trade. It later evolved to become a port, providing access to the interior of both Upper and Lower Canada and facilitating the development of Canada’s natural resource-based economy. It served as headquarters for the Grand Trunk Railway and was the commercial capital of Canada, rivalling New York for control of trade to the hinterland.
Today, it’s the second-largest metropolis in Canada after Toronto.
It’s also the biggest city on Earth where two of the world’s great languages and cultures, English and French, co-exist   — albeit sometimes uneasily. It has a dynamic multicultural personality where many languages are spoken and cultural influences from many parts of the world are encountered daily.
What’s more, Montreal is similar to cities like Chicago and New York in that it’s often had larger-than-life personalities as mayors for many years. Camillien Houde and Jean Drapeau , between them, governed the city for close to 50 years.
Both Plante and Coderre are open to the city’s diversity and linguistic duality, which I have explored in great detail as the author of two books, City of Dreams: Social Theory and the Urban Experience and Toward a Humanist Political Economy (co-authored with Phillip Hansen).
I have also written at length on the critical role infrastructure investment needs to play in our cities. Montreal’s crumbling infrastructure contributed to Coderre’s demise and will likely dominate Plante’s first years in office as well.
Infrastructure investment is crucial
Infrastructure investment and quantitative easing are necessary policies to recover from severe business cycle downturns and to create jobs. In Montreal, it’s integral.
Coderre got elected to the job of mayor four years ago on a platform of restoring the city, rebuilding its infrastructure and cleaning up corruption. In many respects, he succeeded, but he fell victim to some of the frustration felt by people about the commuter chaos that’s emerged while Montreal rebuilds its highways and replaces antiquated infrastructure.
Outgoing Mayor Denis Coderre makes his concession speech after losing the municipal election in Montreal. (THE CANADIAN PRESS/Ryan Remiorz)
It’s a problem faced by many North American cities as they seek to repair their infrastructure and rebuild and expand public transportation. Along with the pressure of rising land values, inflating house and condo prices and exorbitant rents, these problems are escalating.
As for Plante, one has to go back to the regime of the late Jean Doré and the Montreal Citizens’ Movement, which defeated the legendary conservative nationalist Drapeau in 1986, to find as left wing and progressive a mayor as she aspires to be.
Doré governed for eight years and eventually became more of a reforming technocrat than a left-wing idealist.
Now we’ll see whether political power and the challenge of meeting Montreal’s growing public transportation and infrastructure needs will also transform Plante and her party in what’s sure to be another fascinating phase in Montreal’s history.
Tweet
Share
Get newsletter Newsletter
You might also like
Most popular on The Conversation
Fourteen signs your daughter may have ADHD
Loneliness could kill you
My experience as an under-paid Ontario college instructor
Science in the home boosts children’s academic success
Oculus and our troubles with (virtual) reality
How quantum materials may soon make Star Trek technology reality
How ‘Star Trek: Discovery’ warps science
TIFF 2017: Movie magic from math and science
What your profile pic says about you in the Tinder age
How carbon farming can help solve climate change
Expert Database
Find experts with knowledge in: *
Want to write?
Write an article and join a growing community of more than 59,000 academics and researchers from 2,220 institutions.
Register now
The Conversation
Community
Community standards
Republishing guidelines
Analytics
Our feeds
Company
Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Partners and funders
Contributing institutions
Resource for media
Contact us
Stay informed
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Email address
✔
Follow us on social media
Privacy policy Terms and conditions Corrections
Copyright © 2010–2017, Academic Journalism Society
